\c 7
\p
\v 1 When YHWh your God brings you into the land that you are going to take possession of and he drives away many nations from before you, the Hittites, and the Girgashite, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations more numerous and mighty than you,
\v 2 and Yhwh your God gives them before you and he you strike them to devote them to destruction, you shall not make a covenant with them and you shall not favor them.
\v 3 And you shall not intermarry with them, you shall not give your daughter to his son or take his daughter for your son.
\v 4 For he will turn your son from after me and they will serve other gods and the anger of Yhwh will become hot against you and he will destroy you hastily.
\v 5 Instead, thus you shall do to them, their altars you shall pull down and their memorials you shall smash, and their Asherahs you shall cut down and their divine images you shall burn completely with fire.
\v 6 For you are a holy people to Yhwh your God; Yhwh your God has chosen you to be for him a treasured people more than all the peoples that are on the face of the ground.
\v 7 Not because you were more numerous than all the peoples did Yhwh love you and choose you, for you are the smallest of all the peoples.
\v 8 For it is because Yhwh loved you and kept his oath that he swore to your fathers that Yhwh brought out by a mighty and and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt.
\v 9 And you shall nkow that Yhwh your God is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and steadfast love to those who love him and to those who keep his commands to a thousand generations
\v 10 and retaliates to his face those who hate him to cause him to die; he does not delay to retaliate to his face to those who hate him.
\v 11 And you shall keep the command and the statutes and the judgments that I commanded you today to do them.
\p
\v 12 And it will be because you listen to these judgments and you keep and do them, Yhwh your God will keep the covenant for you and the steadfast love that he swore to your fathers.
\v 13 And he will love you and bless you and multiply you and bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your land, your grain and your wine and your olive oil, that which is birthed from your cattle, and the offspring of your sheep on the land which he swore to your fathers to give to you.
\v 14 Blessed you will be above all the peoples; there shall not be among you infertile or barren and among your cattle.
\v 15 And Yhwh will remove from you all sickness and all the evil sicknesses of Egypt that you knew, he will not place them on but give them to all who hate you.
\v 16 And you will eat all the peoples that Yhwh your God is giving you; your eyes shall not be troubled because of them and you shall not serve their gods, for it would snare you.
\p
\v 17 "If you will say in your heart, 'these nations are more numerous than I---how shall I consume to dispossess them?'
\v 18 you shall not fear them; you shall surely remember what Yhwh your GOd has done to Pharaoh and to all Egypt,
\v 19 the great trials that your eyes saw and the signs and wonders and the mighty hand and the outstretched arm with which Yhwh your God brought you out, thus Yhwh your God will do to all the peoples that you fear.
\v 20 And also Yhwh your God will send the wasp on them until what remains and hides is destroyed from before you.
\v 21 You shall not be terrified of them for Yhwh your God is in your midst, a great and awesome God.
\v 22 And Yhwh your God will pluck out these nations from before you little by little; you will not be able to bring them to an end quickly lest the wild animals of the field become too numerous for you.
\v 23 And Yhwh your God will give them before you and make them greatly confused until they are destroyed.
\v 24 And he will give their kings into your hand and you will make their name perish from under heaven; no man shall take his stand against you until you destroy them.
\v 25 The divine images of their gods you shall burn with fire; you shall not desire the silver or gold that is on them or take it for yourself lest you are ensnared by it because it is an abomination to Yhwh your God.
\v 26 And you shall not bring an abomination to your house and you be what is banned like it. You shall surely detest it and abhor it, for it is banned.