\c 13
\k1
\v 1 And Abram went up from Egypt with his wife and all which was his and Lot with him to the Negev.
\v 2 And Abram was exceedingly wealthy in livestock, silver, and gold.
\v 3 And he went for his journeys and came as far as Bethel to the place where his tent was at first between Bethel and Ai
\v 4 to the place of the altar which he had made at first and Abram called on the name of the Lord there.
\v 5 And also Lot, who went with Abram, had sheep, cattle, and tents. And the land could not sustain them to live together for their possessions were many and they were not able to live together.
\v 7 And there as a dispute between the shepherds of Abram’s livestock and the shepherds of Lot’s livestock. Now the Canaanites and the Perizzites were living in the land then.
\v 8 So Abram said to Lod, “Let there not be a dispute between me and you and between my shepherds and your shepherds for we are brothers.
\v 9 Is not the whole land before you? Please separate from me, if to the left I will go to the right, if to the right I will go to the left.”
\v 10 And Lot lifted up his eyes and he saw all the plain of the Jordan that all of it was watered (before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah) like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt as you go to Zoar.
\v 11 And Lot chose for himself all the plain of the Jordan and Lot departed to the East and they separated from each other.
\v 12 Abram lived in the land of Canaan and Lot lived in the cities of the plain and pitched his tent in Sodom.
\v 13 And the men of Sodom were evil and great sinners against the Lord.
\v 14 The Lord said to Abram after Lot separated from him, “Lift up your eyes and see from the place where you are to the north, to the Negev, to the East and to the West.
\v 15 For all the land which you see I will give to you and to your seed forever.
\v 16 And I will place your seed like the dust of the earth which if a man was able to count the dust of the earth also he could count your seed.
\v 17 Rise, go back and forth in the land for its length and breadth for I will give it to you.”
\v 18 And Abram pitched his ten and he lived among the oaks of Mamre which were in Hebron and he built an altar there to the Lord.