\c 4
\p
\v 1 And Adam knew Eve his wife and she concieved and bore Cain and she said, “I have obtained a man with the Lord.”
\v 2 And again she bore his brother Abel and Abel was a shepherd of shep but Cain was a worker of the ground.
\v 3 And at the end of some days Cain brought from the fruit of the ground a gift for the Lord.
\v 4 And Abel also brought the first born of his flock and of their fat and the Lord had regard for Abel and his gift
\v 5 but for Cain and for his give he did not have regard and Cain became very angry and his face fell.
\v 6 and the Lord said to Cain, “Why are you angry? And why has your face fallen?
\v 7 Is it not so that if you do well it will be lifted (?) but if you do not do well sin lies at the door and you will be its longing, but you must rule over it.”
\v 8 And Cain said (this) to Abel his brother. And it happened when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and he killed him.
\v 9 And the Lord said to Cain, “Where is Abel your brother?” And he said, “I do not know. Am I the keeper of my brother?”
\v 10 And He said, “What have you done? The voice of the blood of your brother is crying out to me from the ground.
\v 11 And now you are cursed from the ground which has opened its mouth to receive the blood of your bother from you hand.
\v 12 When you work the ground it will no longer give its strength to you. You will be a vagabond and a wanderer on the earth.”
\v 13 And Cain said to the Lord, “My punishment is too great to bear!
\v 14 Behold you have driven me this day from the face of the ground and from your face I will be hidden. And I will be a vagabond and a wanderer on the earth and everyone who finds me will kill me.”
\v 15 And the Lord said to him, “Therefore whoever kills Cain it will be avenged seven-fold.” And the Lord placed a sign for Cain lest anyone who found him would strike him.
\v 16 And Cain went out from before the Lord and he dwelt in the land of Nod east of Eden.
\v 17 And Cain knew his wife and she conceived and bore Enoch. And he built a city and he called the city Enoch like the name of his son.
\v 18 And to Enoch was born Irad and Irad fathered Mehujael and Mehujael fathered Methushael and Mehushael fathered Lamech.
\v 19 And Lamech took for himself two wives. The name of the first was Adah and the name of the second was Zillah.
\v 20 And Adah gave birth to Jabal. He was the father of those living in tents and having livestock.
\v 21 And the name of his brothjer was Jubal. He was the father of all those playing the lyre and a stringed instrument.
\v 22 And Zilla even she bore Tubal-Cain, the forger of all implements (?) of bronze and iron and the sister of Tubal-Cain wass Naamah.
\v 23 And Lamech said to his wives Adah and Zillah, “Listen to my voice, O wives of Lamech, give ear to what I say for I have killed a man for wounding me and a boy for striking me.
\v 24 If Can was avenged seven-fold Lamech seventy-sevenfold.
\v 25 And Adam man knew (Qal, Impf., 3ms, ud^y*) his wife again and she bore (Qal, Impf., 3fs, dly) a son and she called (Qal, Impf., 3fs, arq) his name Seth for “God has put (Qal, Perf., 3ms, tyc) another seed instead of Abel for Cain killed him (Qal, Perf., 3ms, 3ms suff., grh).”
\v 26 And to Seth, also him, a son was born (Qal Pass., Perf., 3ms, dly) and he called (Qal, Impf., 3ms, arq) his name Enosh. Then it was begun (Hophal, Perf., 3ms, llj) to call on the name of the Lord.