\c 11
\p
\v 1 And all the earth had one language and one set of words.
\v 2 And when they set out from the east they found the valley in the land of Shinar and they lived there.
\v 3 And each man said to his neighbor, “Come, let us make bricks and let us burn to a burning (?),” and they made bricks with stone and tar was their mortar.
\v 4 And they said, “Come, let us build for ourselves a city and a tower and its top will be in the heavens and we will make a name for ourselves lest we be scattered over the face of the whole earth.”
\v 5 And the Lord went down to see the city and the tower which the men were building.
\v 6 And the Lord said, “Behold they are one people and there is one language for all of them and this they have begun (Hiph.) to do, and now it is not impossible for them to do anything which they plan to do.
\v 7 Come, le tus go down and confuse their language there so that a man cannot understand his neighbor’s language.”
\v 8 And the Lord scattered them from there over the face of all the earth and they stopped building the city.
\v 9 Therefore the name of that place is called Babel for there the Lord confused the language of all the earth and from there the Lord scattered them over the face of the whole earth.
\v 10 These are the accounts of Shem. Shem was 100 years old and he fathered Arpachshad two years after the flood.
\v 11 And Shem after he fathered Arpachshad lived five hundred years and he fathered sons and daughters.
\v 12 And Arpachshad was thirty-five and he fathered Shelah.
\v 13 And Arpachshad after he became the father of Shelah lived four hundred and three years and he fathered sons and daughters.
\v 14 And Shelah was thirty years old when he fathered Eber.
\v 15 And Shelah aafter he fathered Eber lived four hundred and three years and he had sons and daughters.
\v 16 And Eber was thirty-four years old when he fathered Peleg. And Eber after he fathered Peleg lived four hundred and thirty years and he fathered sons and daughters.
\v 18 And Peleg was thirty years old when he fathered Reu.
\v 19 And Peleg after he became the father of Reu lived a hundred and nine years and he fathered sons and daughters.
\v 20 And Reu was thirty when he fathered Serug.
\v 21 And Reu after he fathered Serug lived a hundred and seven years and he fathered sons and daughters.
\v 22 And Serug was thirty years old when he fathered Nahor.
\v 23 And Serug after he fathered Nahor lived a hundred years and fathered sons and daughters.
\v 24 And Nahor was twenty-nine years old when he fathered Terah.
\v 25 And Nahor after he fathered Terah lived a hundred and nineteen years and he fathered sons and daughters.
\v 26 And Terah was seventy years old when he fathered Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
\v 27 These are the generations of Terah: Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran became the father of Lot.
\v 28 And Haran died before Terah his father in the land of his birth in Ur of the Chaldeans.
\v 29 Abram and Nahor took for themselves wives; the name of the wife of Abram was Sarai and the name of the wife of Nahor was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah and Iscah.
\v 30 And Sarai was barren; there was no child for her.
\v 31 And Terah took Abram his son and Lot, son of Haran, his son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, the wife of Abram his son, and he went out with them from Ur of the Chaldeans to go to the land of Canaan. And they came as far as Haran and they dwelled there.
\v 32 And the days of Terah were two-hundred and five years, and he died in Haran.