\c 20
\p
\v 1 In those days Hezekiah was mortally ill and Isaiah the son of Amoz the prophet came to him and he said to him, “Thus says the Lord, ‘Give charge to your house for you shall die and not live.’”
\v 2 And he turned his face to the wall and he prayed to the Lord saying,
\v 3 “I pray, O Lord, remember how I have walked before you in truth and with a complete heart and what is good in your eyes I have done.” And Hezekiah wept bitterly.
\v 4 And Isaiah had not gone out of the middle court and the word of the Lord came to him saying,
\v 5 “Return and say to Hezekiah, leader of my people, ‘Thus says the Lord the God of David your father, “I have heard your prayer and I have seen your tears. Behold I will heal you. On the third day you will go up to the house of the Lord.
\v 6 And I will add to your life fifteen years and from the hand of the king of Assyria I will deliver you and this city, and I will defend this city for my sake and for the sake of David my servant.”’”
\v 7 And Isaiah said, “Take a cake of figs.” And they took it and placed it on the boil and he lived.
\v 8 And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “What will be the sign that the Lord will heal me and I will go up on the third day to the house of the Lord?”
\v 9 And Isaiah said, “This will be the sign for you from the Lord, that the Lord will do this thing which he has spoken: shall the shadow go forward ten steps or return ten steps\f + \ft ?\f* ?”
\v 10 And Hezekiah said, “It is trifling for the shadow to stretch out ten steps. No, for the shadow shall return backwards ten steps.”
\v 11 And Isaiah the prophet called to the Lord and he returned the shadow on the stairway which had gone down on the stairway of Ahaz backwards ten steps.
\v 12 At that time Berodach-baladan the son of Baladan the king of Babylon sent letter and a gift to Hezekiah for he heard that Hezekiah was sick.
\v 13 And Hezekiah listened to them and he showed them all the treasure house, the silver, the gold, the spices, the fine oil, the hoiuse of his armor, and all which is foound in his treasuries. There was nothing which Hezekiah did not show them in his house and in all his realm.
\v 14 Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and he said to him, “What did these men say and from where have they come to you?” And Hezekiah said, “From a faraway land they have come, from Babylon.”
\v 15 And he said, “What have they seen in your house?” And Hezekiah said, “All which is in my house they have seen and there is not one thing which I did not show them in my treasuries.”
\v 16 And Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of the Lord.
\v 17 ‘Behold days are coming and everything which is in your house and which your fathers stored up until this day will be taken up to Babylon and there will be nothing left,’ says the Lord.’
\v 18 ‘And from your sons who come of you, whom you father, will be taken and they will be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.’”
\v 19 And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word of the Lord which you have spoken is good.” And he said, “Is it not so if there is peace and truth in my days?”
\v 20 And the rest of the matters of Hezekiah and all his might and how he made the pool and the water-course, and brought water to the city, are they not written in the book of the days of the kings of Judah?
\v 21 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers and Manasseh his son became king in his place.