\c 11
\p
\v 1 And you shall love YHWH your God and you shall keep his obligation and his statutes and his judgments and his commands all your days.
\v 2 And you shall know today that not your children who have not known and who have not seen the discipline of YHWH your God, his greatness, his strong hand, and his outstretched arm,
\v 3 his signs and his deeds that he did in the midst of Egypt to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and to all his land,
\v 4 and what he did to the army of Egypt, to its horses and to hits chariots which he caused the waters of the sea of reeds to flow over their faces when they were pursuing you, and YHWH destroyed them to this day,
\v 5 and what he did to you in the desert until you came to this place,
\v 6 and what he did to Dathan and to Abiram, sons of Eliab, son of Reuben, how the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them and their households and their tents and all the stock that was in their foot (?) in the midst of all Israel.
\v 7 For your eyes see every deed of YHWH, every great deed that he has done.
\p
\v 8 And you shall keep every command that I command you today to be strong and you will go and take possession of the land that you are passing over there to take possession,
\v 9 and that you may prolong your days in th eland which YHWH swore to your fathers to give to them and to their seed, a land flowing with milk and honey.
\p
\v 10 For the land where you are going to possess is not like that land of Egypt from which you came, where you swoed your seed and you irrigated with your feet like a garden of greens.
\v 11 But the land that you are passing over to possess is a land of mountains and valleys, by the rain of heaven it drinks water.
\v 12 It is a land that YHWH your God cares for it---continually the eyes of YHWH your God are on it from the beginning of the year to the end of the year.
\p
\v 13 And it will be if you surely obey my commands that I am commanding you this day, to love YHWH your God and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul,
\v 14 I will give rain for your land in its season, early rain and late rain, and you will gather your grain and your wine and your oil,
\v 15 and I will give grass in your field for your cattle and you will eat and be satisfied.
\v 16 Guard yourself lest your heart be gullible, and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them.
\v 17 And the anger of YHWH will be hot against you, and he will restrain the heavens and there will not be rain and the ground will not give its produce, and you will perish quickly from on the good land that YHWH is giving to you.
\p
\v 18 And you shall place these my words on your hearts and on your souls, and you shall tie them as a sign on your hand, and they will be phylacteries between your eyes.
\v 19 And you shall teach them to your children, to speak them when you sit in your house, and when you go on the way, and when you like down and when you rise,
\v 20 and you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and in your gates,
\v 21 so that your days may be numerous and the days of your children on the ground that YHWH swore to your fathers to give to them, like the days of the heavens above the earth.
\p
\v 22 For if you surely keep this whole command that I am commanding you to do it, to love YHWH your God, to walk in all his ways, and to cling to him,
\v 23 then YHWH will drive out all these nations from before you, and you will drive out nations greater and mightier than you.
\v 24 All the place where the soles of your feet tread will be yours, from the desert to Lebanon, from the river Euphrates to the western sea will be your territory.
\v 25 A man will not stand against your face, your dread and fear of you YHWH your God will give to the face of all the land where you tread, as he spoke to you.
\p
\v 26 See, I am giving before you this day blessing and cursing.
\v 27 The blessing if you obey the commands of YHWEh your God, which I am commanding you today.
\v 28 And the cursing if you do not obey the commands of YHWH your God and you turn aside from the way which I am commanding you this day to walk after other gods which you have not known.
\p
\v 29 And it will be when YHWH your God will bring you to th eland where you are going to possess it, and you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal.
\v 30 Are they not beyond the Jordan, beyond the way the sun goes in the land of the Canaanites who dwell in the Arabah in front of Gilgal beside the oak of Moreh.
\v 31 For you are crossing over the Jordan to go take possession of the land that YHWH your God is giving to you, and you will possess it and live in it.
\v 32 And you will keep to do all the statutes and the judgments that I am giving before you this day.