\c 6
\p
\v 1 And it happened when men began (Hiphil) to multiply on the face of the ground and daughters were born to them,
\v 2 that the sons of God saw the daughers of men, that they were beautiful, and they took wives for themselves from whoever they chose.
\v 3 And the Lord said, “My spirit shall not contend with man forever because he also is flesh and his days sahll be one hundred and twenty years.”
\v 4 The Nephilim were on the earth in those days and also after this when the sons of God came to the daughters of men they bore children to them. They were the mighty men from of old, men of renown.
\v 5 And the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth and every purpose of the thoughts of his heart were only evil every day
\v 6 and the Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth and he was grieved (?) in his heart.
\v 7 And the Lord said, “I will wipe out man which I have made from upon the face of the ground, from man to cattle, to creeping things and to the birds of the sky for I am sorry that I made them.”
\v 8 But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord.
\v 9 These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, he was wholesome in his generations. Noah walked with God.
\v 10 And Noah fathered (Hiph., Impf., 3ms, dly) three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
\v 11 And the earth was corrupt (Niph., Impf., 3fs, tjv) before God and the earth was full (Niph., Impf., 3fs, alm) of violence.
\v 12 And God saw the earth and behold it was corrupt (Niph., Perf., 3fs, tjv) for all flesh corrupted (Hiph., Perf., 3ms, tjv) its way on the earth.
\v 13 And God said to Noah, “The end of all flesh has come before me for the earth is full of violence from before them and behold I am destroying them (Hiph., Part., ms, 3mp suff., tjv) with the earth.
\v 14 Make (Qal, Impv., ms, hcu) for yourself an ark of gopher wood; you will make the ark with compartments and you will cover it from within and from without with pitch.
\v 15 And this is how you will make it: the length of the ark will be three hundred cubits; fifty cubits will be its length, and thirty cubits its height.
\v 16 You will make covering for the ark and you will finish it (Pi., Impf., 2ms, 3fp suff., hlk) to a cubit from the top and you will set the opening of the ark in its side; you will make it with lower, second, and third (decks).
\v 17 And I, behold I, am bringing (Hiph., Part., ms, awb) the flood of water upon the earth to destroy (Pi., Inf. Con., tjv) all flesh with in it is the breath of life from under the heavens, all which is on the earth will die (Qal, Impf., 3ms, uwg).
\v 18 And I will raise (Hiph., Perf., 1cs, <wq) my covenent with you and you will come to the ark, you and your sons and your wife and the wives of your sons with you.
\v 19 And from all the living, from all flesh, two from every (kind) you will bring to the ark to live with you, there will be male and female.
\v 20 From flying creatures by their kinds and from animals by its kind, from all the creeping things of the ground by their kinds, two from every (kind) will come to you to stay alive (Hiph., Inf. Con., hyj).
\v 21 And you, take for yourself from all food which is eaten (Niph., Impf., 3ms, lka) and you will gather it to you and it wil be for you and for them for food.”
\v 22 And Noah did according to all which God commanded him thus he did.