\c 2
\p
\v 1 And we turned and departed to the desert by the way of the sea of reeds as Yhwh spoke to me, and we went around Mount Seir for many days.
\v 2 And Yhwh said to me, saying,
\v 3 "You have been going around this mountain a long time; turn to the north.
\v 4 And command the people saying, 'You are passing through on the border of your brothers the children of Esau who dwell at Seir and they will be afraid of you and you be very watchful.
\v 5 Do not get in a fight with them for I will not give to you from their land, even as much as a footprint for I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession.
\v 6 You will buy food from them with silver and you will eat and also water you will buy from them with silver and you will dring.
\v 7 For Yhwh your God has blessed you in all the work of your hand; He knows your going through this great desert forty years; Yhwh your God is with you, you have not you have not lacked an thing."
\v 8 And we passed by our brothers the sons of Esau who dwell at Seir from the way of the Arabah from Elath and from Ezion Geber and we turned and passed through the way of the desert of Moab."
\p
\v 9 And Yhwh said to me, "Do not attack Moab and do not stir up a battle with them for I will not give to you from their land a possession for I have given Ar to the sons of Lot as a possession.
\v 10 (The Emim lived in it before, a people great and numerous and tall like the Anakim.
\v 11 They are counted as Rephaim like the Anakim and the Moabites called them Emim.
\v 12 And at Seir the Horim dwelled before and the sons of Esau dispossessed them and they destroyed them from before them and they dwelled there instead of them as Israel has done to the land which Yhwh gave to them as a possession.)
\v 13 Now, arise and pass over the river valley Zered." And we passed over the river valley Zered.
\v 14 And the days which we walked from Kadesh Barnea until when we passed over the river valley Zered was thirty eight years, until all the generation of men of battle from the midst of the camp were complete, just as Yhwh swore to them.
\v 15 And also the hand of Yhwh was against them to disturb them from the midst of the camp until it was perished.
\v 16 And when all the men of battle finished dying from the midst of the people,
\v 17 Yhwh spoke to me saying,
\v 18 "You shall cross over the border of Moab to Ar today.
\v 19 And you will come in front of the sons of Moab; do not attack them and do not stir up strife with them, for I will not give from the land of the sons of Moab to you as a possession, for I have given it to the sons of Lot as a possession.
\v 20 (It is also considered the land of the Rephaim. Rephaim lived there before, and the Ammonites called them Zamzummim.
\v 21 A people great and numerous and tall like the Anakim, and Yhwh destroyed them from before them and he made them take possession and dwell there instead of them.
\v 22 Just as he did for the sons of Esau who dwell in Seir when he destroyed the Horites from before them and caused them to take possession and dwell instead o fthem until this day.
\v 23 And the Avvim who dwell in settlements as far as Gaza, the Caphtorim who came out of Caphtor, he destroyed them and settled in their place.)
\v 24 'Get up, break camp, and pass through the Arnon Gorge; see I have given Sihon king of Heshbon the Amorite into your hand and his land; begin to take possession and stir up a battle with him.
\v 25 This day I will begin to give your dread (?) and your fear before the peoples under all the heavens who hear of you and tremble and writhe from before you.
\p
\v 26 And I sent messengers from the desert of Kedemoth to Sihon king of Heshbon, words of peace, saying,
\v 27 "Let me pass through in your land in the road; on the road I will go, I will not turn aside to the right or to the left.
\v 28 Food you will make me to buy for money and water you will give to me for money, and I will drink. Only let me pass through on my feet.
\v 29 Just as the sons of Esau did for me, who live in Seir and the Moabites who live in Ar---until I pass through the Jordan to the land which Yhwh our God is giving to us."
\v 30 But Sihon king of Heshbon was not willing to let us pass through in it, for Yhwh your God had hardened his spirit and hardened his heart in order that he might give him into your hand as this day.
\p
\v 31 And Yhwh said to me, "See I have begun to give before you Sihon and his land---begin to take possession to possess his land."
\v 32 And Sihon went out to meet us, he and all his people for battle to Jahaz.
\v 33 And Yhwh our God gave him before us and struck him and his sons and all his people.
\v 34 And we overthrew all his cities at that time and we devoted to the ban the whole city, men and women and little children; we did not let any survivors remain.
\v 35 Only the cattle we plundered for ourselves and the spoil of the cities which we overthrew.
\v 36 From Aroer which is on the edge of the Arnon valley and the city which is in the valley as far as Gilead, no town which was too strong for us, Yhwh our gave all of them before us.
\v 37 Only to the land of the sons of Ammon you did not draw; near every arm of the valley Jabbok and the cities of the hill country and all which Yhwh our God commanded.