\c 19
\p
\v 1 And the two angels came to Sodom in the evening and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom and Lot saw them and rose to meet them and they bowed their faces to the ground.
\v 2 And he said, “Behold, my lords, turn aside please to the house of your servant and stay and wash your feet and you will rise and go your way.” And they said, “No, for we will stay the the city plaza.
\v 3 And he pressed them exceedingly and they turned aside to him and they came to his house and he made for them drink and bread he baked and they ate.
\v 4 Before they lay down the men of the city, the men of Sodom, surrounded the house from lad to old man all the people from the outskirts.
\v 5 And they called to Lot and they said to him, “Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us that we may know them.”
\v 6 And Lot went out to them to the door and he shut the door after him.
\v 7 And he said, “Please do not be evil, my borthers.
\v 8 Behold I have two daughters who have not known a man. Let me bring them out to you and do with them whatever is good in your eyes only these men you shall not do a think for they came under the shadow of my roof.”
\v 9 And they said, “Come out here.” And they said, “This one came to sojourn and he is continually judging. Now we will be more wicked with you than with them.” And they pressed against Lot exceedingly and they came near to break the door.
\v 10 And the men reached out their hands and they brought Lot to themselves in the house and they shut the door.
\v 11 And they struck the men who were at the door of the house with blindness from the smallest to the greatest and theyh became weary of looking for the door.
\v 12 And the men said to Lot, “Who else do you have here? A son-in-law and your sons and your daughters and all which is yours in the city bring out from this place.
\v 13 For we are destroying this pace because their great cry has come before the Lord and the Lord sent us to destroy it.”
\v 14 And Lot went out and he spoke to his sons-in-law who were taking his daughers and he said, “Rise, come out form this place for the Lord is destroying the city.” And in the eyes of his sons-in-law it was like he was playing,
\v 15 And as dawn rose the angels pressed Lot saying, “Rise, take your wife and your two daughers who are found lest you be swept away in the punishment of the city.”
\v 16 And he lingered and the men grabbed his hand and the hand of his wife and the hand of his two daughers because of the compassion of the Lord for him and they brought them out and set them outside the city.
\v 17 And as they brought them outside one said, “Escape for your life! Do not look behind you and do not stand in the valley; escape to the mountains lest you be swept away.”
\v 18 And Lot said to them, “No, my lords.”
\v 19 Behold your servant has found favor in your eyes and you have made great your love which you have doen for me to let my life live but I am not able to escape to the mountains lest evil cling to me and I die.
\v 20 Behodl this city is near to flee there and it is small. Please let me escape there (is it not small?) and my life will live.”
\v 21 And he said to thim, “Behold I lift up your face also to this word not to overturn the city which you have said.
\v 22 Hurry, escape there for I am not able to do anyhint until you arrive there.” Therefore the name of the city is called Zoar.
\v 23 The sun had come out over the earth and Lot came to Zoar.
\v 24 And the Lord rained down on Sodom and on Gomorah brimstone and fire from the Lord from heaven.
\v 25 He he overturned those cities and all the valley and all the inhabitants of the cities and the growth of the ground.
\v 26 And his wife looked back and she became a pillar of salt.
\v 27 And Abraham got up in the morning and went to the place where he stood before the Lord.
\v 28 And he looked out over the face of Sodom and Gomorah and over the face of the land of the valley and he saw and behold thick smoke of the land was like the thick smoke of a kiln.
\v 29 And it happened when God destroyed the cities of the valley God remembered Abraham and he sent Lot from the midst of the overthrow when he overturned the cities in which Lot lived.
\v 30 And Lot went up from Zoar and he lived in the mountains and his two daughters were with him for he was afraid to live in Zoar and he lived in a cave with his two daughters.
\v 31 And the firstborn said to the younger one, “Our father is old and there is not a man in the land to come in to us according to the way of the earth.
\v 32 Come, let us give our father wine to drink and we will sleep with him that we may live from our father, seed.”
\v 33 And they gave their father wine to drink that night and the firstborn came and lay with her father and he did not know when she lay down and when she arose.
\v 34 And on the next day the firstborn said to the younger, “Behold I lay last night with my father. Let us give him wine also tonight and you come and lie with him and we will live from our father, seed.
\v 35 And they gave their father wine to drink also that night and the younger rose and lay with him and he did not know when she lay down and when she rose.
\v 36 And the two daughters of Lot conceived from their father.
\v 37 And the firstborn bore a son and she called his name Moab. He is the father of Moab to this day.
\v 38 And the younger one also bore a son and she called his name Ben-ammi. He is the father of the sons of Ammon to this day.