\c 13
\p
\v 1 Every word that I command you you shall keep to do; you shall not add to it, and you shall not take away from it.
\p
\v 2 When a prophet shall arise in your midst or a dreamer of dreams and he gives you a sign or a wonder,
\v 3 and the sign comes and the wonder that he spoke to you, saying, "Let us come after other gods," that you have not known, and "let us serve them,"
\v 4 you shall not liste to the words of this prophet or to this dreamer of dreams, for Yhwh your God is testing you to know whether there are those who love YHWh your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
\v 5 After Yhwh your God you shall walk, you shall fear him and his commands you shall keep, and you shall listen to his voice, and you shall serve him and to him you shall cling.
\v 6 And that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall die, for he has spoken a lie against Yhwh your God (who brought you out of the land of Egypt, and he ransomed you from the house of slavery) to drive you from the way that Yhwh your God commanded you to walk in, and you shall expel the evil from your midst.
\p
\v 7 When your brother, the son of your mother or your son or your daughter or the wife of your embrace or your friend who is like yourself in secret should mislead you saying, "Let us go and serve other gods" that you have not known, nor have your fathers,
\v 8 from the gods of the peoples who surround you, those near you or those far from you from the edge of the land even to the edge of the land,
\v 9 you shall not be willing and you shall not listen to him and you shall not let your eye be troubled with him and you shall not have compassion and you shall not conceal him,
\v 10 but you shall surely kill him; your hand shall be against him at first to put him to death, and the hand of all the people afterward.
\v 11 And you shall stone him with sones, and he wil die because he sought to lead astray from Yhwh your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt from the house of slavery.
\v 12 And all Israel will hear and fear and they will not continue to do according to this evil thing in your midst.
\p
\v 13 When you hear concerning one of your cities that Yhwh your God is giving to you to live there saying,
\v 14 "Useless men went out from your midst and they led the inhabitants of cities saying, 'Let us go and serve other gods,'" that you have not known,
\v 15 then you shall seek and explore and you shall ask well about it. And behold, the truth of the matter is established---this abomination was done in your midst,
\v 16 you shall surely struke the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, put it under the ban, and all that is in it and its cattle with the edge of the sword.
\v 17 And all its plunder you shall gather to the open plaza and you shall burn the city with fire and all its plunder as a whole offering to Yhwh your God and it will be a rubbish heap forever---you shall not rebuild it.
\v 18 And do not let anything cling to your hand from what is devoted to the ban that Yhwh may turn from his burning anger and give to you mercy and your mercy and he will make you abundant as he swore to your fathers
\v 19 if you obey the voice of Yhwh your God to keep all his commands that I am commanding you this day to do what is right in the eyes of Yhwh your God.