\c 22
\p
\v 1 Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. And the name of his other was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath.
\v 2 And he did right in the eyes of the Lord and he walked in all the way of his father David and did not turn aside to the right or to the left.
\v 3 And in the eighteenth year of King Josiah that the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam the scribe to the house of the Lord saying,
\v 4 “Go up to Hilkiah the high priest and let him complete the silver which comes in to the house of the Lord which the keepers of the doorkeepers have gathered from the people.
\v 5 And let them give it to the hand of those doing the work of attending to the house of the Lord and let them give it to those doing the work who are in the house of the Lord to strengthen the breaches of the house,
\v 6 to the engravers and the builders and for masons and for buying wod and hewn stone to strengthen the house.
\v 7 Only the silver which is given into their hand shall not be accounted for they work with faithfulness.”
\v 8 And Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, “I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord.” And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan and he read it.
\v 9 And Shaphan the scribe came to the king and returned word to the king and said, “Your servants have poured out the silver found in the house and they have given it to the hand of those doing the work of attending to the house of the Lord.”
\v 10 And Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, “Hilkiah the priest has given to me a book.” And Shaphan read it before the king.
\v 11 And when the king heard the words of the book of the law he tore his garments.
\v 12 And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Achbor the son of Micaiah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the servant of the king, saying,
\v 13 “Go, ask the Lord for me and for the people and for all Judah concernign the words of this book which was found for great is the anger of the Lord which burns against us because our fathers did not listen to the words of this book to do according to all which is written in it.
\v 14 And Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asaiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum, the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, the keeper of the garments. Now she lived in Jerusalem in the second\f + \ft quarter?\f* . And they spoke with her.
\v 15 And she said to them, “Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, ‘Say to the man who sent you to me,
\v 16 “Thus says the Lord, behold I bring evil on this place and on its inhabitants, all the words of the book which the King of Judah has read.
\v 17 Because they have forsaken me and burned sacrifices to other gods in order to anger me with all the work of their hands, and my anger burns against this place and it shall not be quenched.”
\v 18 And to the king of Judah who sent you to seek the Lord, thus you shall say to him, “Thus says the Lord the god of Israel, ‘The words which you heard,
\v 19 because your heart is tender and you humbled yourself before the Lord when you heard what I spoke against this place and against its inhabitants that they should become a horror and a curse, and you have torn your clothes and wept before me, also I have heard,’ declares the Lord.
\v 20 Therefore behold I will gather you to your fathers and you will be gathered to your grave in peace and your eyes will not see all the evil which I will bring on this place.”’” And they returned the word to the king.