\c 23
\p
\v 1 Sarah lived 127 years, the years of Sarah’s life.
\v 2 And Sarah died at Kiriath-arba, that is Hebron, in the land of Canaan and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her.
\v 3 And Abraham rose from before his dead (wife) and he spoke to the Hittites saying,
\v 4 I am a sojourner and an alien with you. Give to me burial property among you and I will bury my dead from before me.
\v 5 And the Hittites answered Abraham saying to him,
\v 6 “Hear us, my lord. You are a chief of God among us. In our choice tombs bury your dead. No man from us will withhold his tomb from you from burying your dead.”
\v 7 And Abraham rose and bowed to the people of the land, the Hittites.
\v 8 And he spoke to them saying, “If you are willing to bury my dead from before me, hear me and put pressure on Ephron son of Zohar for me
\v 9 that he may give me the cave of Machpelah which is his which is at the end of his field. With full silver let him give it to me in your midst for a burial property.
\v 10 And Ephron was sitting in the midst of the Hittites and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the hearing of the Hittites, for allwho came to the gate of his city, saying,
\v 11 “No, my lord, hear me. I give you the field and the cave which is in it I give it before the eyes of the sons of my people I give it to you. Bury your dead.”
\v 12 And Abraham bowed before the people of the land.
\v 13 And he spoke to Ephron in the hearing of the people of the land saying, “Indeed if not, listen to me, I give the silver for the field. Take it from me and I will bury my dead there.”
\v 14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying to him,
\v 15 “My lord, listen to me. The land is for hundred shekels of silver, what is that between you and me? Bury your dead.”
\v 16 And Abraham listened to Ephron and Abraham weighed out for Ephron the silver which he spoke in the hearing of the Hittites, four hundred shekels of silver passing over to the merchant (?).
\v 17 And the field of Ephron which is in Machelah which is before Mamre, the field and the cave which is in it and all the trees which are in the field which is in all its boundary rose
\v 18 to Abraham as a possession before the eyes of the Hittites before all who come to the gate of his city.
\v 19 And after this Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machphelah before Mamre, that is Hebron, in the land of Canaan.
\v 20 And the field and the cave which is in it passed over to Abraham as a burial property from the Hittites.