\c 5
\p
\v 1 Let me sing for my beloved a song of love for his vineyard; the vineyard was my beloved’s with a fertile hill.
\v 2 And he dug about it and he removed its stones and planted it with choice vines and he built a tower in the midst of it and also hewed out a wine-vat in it and he waited to produce grapes and it produced wild grapes.
\v 3 And now inhabitant of Jerusalem and man of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard.
\v 4 What more was there to do for my vineyard that I have not done for it? Why did I wait for it to produce grapes and it produced wild grapes?
\v 5 And now let me make known to you what I will do to my vineyard; I will remove its hedge to destroy it; to break through its wall and it will be trampled.
\v 6 And I will place it for destruction; it will not be pruned and it will not be hoed and thorns and thorn bushes will come up and I will command a dark cloud to send rain on it.
\v 7 For the vineyard of the Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel and the man of Judah is the plant of his delight and he waits for judgment and behold bloodshed, for righteousness and behold an outcry.
\v 8 Alas for those who touch house to house, field to field and bring them near until there ceases to be a place and you dwell alone in the midst of the land!
\v 9 In my ears the Lord of Hosts, "Surely many houses will be for waste, great and good ones from no inhabitants.
\v 10 For ten acres of vineyard will make one bath and the seed of a homer will make an ephah.
\v 11 Alas for those who get up in the morning and pursue strong drink, who stay up until twilight to burn for wine.
\v 12 And it will be that the lyre and harp, the tambourine and flute, and wine are their banquets. And the deeds of the Lord they do not consider and the work of his hand they do no see.
\v 13 Therefore my people go into exile for lack of knowledge and his honor are men of famine and his crowd is parched with thirst.
\v 14 Therefore Sheol has enlarged its throat and opened wide its mouth without decree and her splendor and her abundance and her uproar and jubilant one go down to it.
\v 15 And man bows down and man becomes low and the eyes of the exalted become low.
\v 16 And the Lord of Hosts is exalted in judgment and the Holy God is set apart in righteousness.
\v 17 And the lambs grace as in their pasture and the ruins of fat ones sojourners will consume.
\v 18 Alas for those who drag iniquity with the cords of falsehood and sin with the ropes of the cart.
\v 19 Those who say, "Let him hasten, let him make haste to his work so that we may see and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near and come that we may know it."
\v 20 Alas for those who call evil good and good evil, who place darkness for light and light for darkness, who place bitterness for sweetness and sweetness for bitterness.
\v 21 Alas for the wise in their own eyes and the discerning before their own face.
\v 22 Alas for the strong to drink wine and the men of strength for mixing strong drink,
\v 23 those who declare the wicked righteous because of a bribe and the righteousness of the righteous they turn aside from them.
\v 24 Therefore as a tongue of fire consumes stubble and chaff by the flame sinks down, the root will be as rottenness and their buds will go up as dust for they hated the law of the Lord of Hosts and the words of the Holy One of Israel they spurned.
\v 25 On account of this the anger of the Lord is kindled against his people and his hand is stretched out upon them and they are be struck and the mountains quake and their corpses are like offal\f + \ft ?\f* in the middle of the street; in all of this his anger is not turned back and his hand is still stretched out.
\v 26 And he will lift up a sign to nations from afar and he will whistle to him from the ends of the earth and behold the haste of the swift will come.
\v 27 There is no one who is weary, there is no one who stumbles in it, not drowsy and not sleeping and the waistcloth at his loins is not open and the thong of his sandal is not drawn.
\v 28 Who sharpened his arrows and all his bows march; the hoofs of his horses seem like flint and his wheels like the storm wind.
\v 29 His roaring is like a lion and he roars like a young lion and he growls and grabs hold of the prey and he carries it off and there is no one to deliver.
\v 30 And he will growl over it on that day like the groaning of the sea and he will look to the land and behold the darkness of the adversary and the light will grow dark in its clouds.