\c 21
\p
\v 1 And the Lord visited Sarah as he said and the Lord did to Sarah as he spoke.
\v 2 And she conceived and Sarah bore to Abraham a son for his old age at the appointed time which God said to him.
\v 3 And Abraham called the son who was born to him which Sarah bore to him, Isaac.
\v 4 And Abraham circumcised Isaac his son on the eighth day as God commanded him.
\v 5 And Abraham was a hundred years old when Isaac was born to him.
\v 6 And Sarah said, “God has made me laughter, all who hear will laugh with me.”
\v 7 And she said, “Who has said to Abraham, “Sarah will give suck to sons,” for I have borne a son in his old age.
\v 8 And the child grew and was weaned and Abraham made a great feast on the day Isaac was weaned.
\v 9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian whom she bore to Abraham laughing.
\v 10 And she said to Abraham, “Drive out (Piel, impv.) this maid and her son for the son of this maid will not inherit with my son with Isaac.”
\v 11 And the matter was exceedingly evil in the eyes of Abraham on account of his son.
\v 12 And God said to Abraham, “Let it not be evil in your eyes on account of the lad and on account of your maid. All which Sarah said to you, listen to her voice for in Isaac the seed will be called for you.
\v 13 And also the son of the maid I will make into a nation for he is your seed.”
\v 14 And Abraham rose in the morning and took bread and a waterskin and gave it to Hagar placing it on her shoulder and the lad and sent her and she went and wandered in the wilderness of Beer-sheba.
\v 15 And the water from the waterskin was gone and she put the child under one of the shrubs.
\v 16 And she went and she sat down a distance of about a bow shot for she said, “Let me not see the death of the child.” And she sat opposite him and she lifted her voice and wept.
\v 17 And God heard the voice of the lad and an angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, “What is it, Hagar? Do not be afraid for God ahs hear dthe voice of the lad where he is.
\v 18 Arise, take the lad and I will strengthen your hand in him for I will make him into a great nation.”
\v 19 And God opened her eyes and she saw a well of water and she went and filled the waterskin with water and she gave it to the lad to drink.
\v 20 And God was with the lad and he grew and lived in the wilderness and he was a bowman.
\v 21 And he lived in the wilderness of Paran and his wife took for him a wife from the land of Egypt.
\v 22 And at that time Abimelech and Phicol, officer of his army, said to Abraham, “God is with you in all which you do.
\v 23 Now swear to me by God here that you will not deal falsely with me and my offspring and my posterity; according to the kindness which I have done with you do with me and with the land in which you have sojourned.”
\v 24 And Abraham said, “I swear it.”
\v 25 And Abraham chastened Abimelech because of the well of water which the servants of Abimelech had seized.
\v 26 And Abimelech said, “I do not know who has done this thing and also you did not tell it to me and also I did not hear of it except to day.”
\v 27 And Abraham took sheep and cattle and gave them to Abimelech and the two of them made a covenant.
\v 28 And abrhaam stood seven ewe-lambs of the flock by themselves.
\v 29 And Abimelech said to Abraham, “What of these seven ewe-lambs which you have set by themselves?”
\v 30 And he said, “The seven ewe-lambs you shall take from my hand as a witness for me, that I have dug this well.”
\v 31 Therefore that place is called Beer-sheba for there the two of them swore.
\v 32 And they made a covenant in Beersheba and Abimelech and Phicol, the officer of his army, rose and they returned to the land of the Philistines.
\v 33 And he planted a tamarisk tree in Beer-sheba and there he called on the name of the Lord, the everlasting God.
\v 34 And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines many days.