\c 8
\p
\v 1 And God remembered Noah and every animal and all the cattle which were with him in the ark and God caused a wind to pass over (Hiph., Impf., 3ms, rbu) the earth and the water abated (Qal, Impf., 3mp, :kv).
\v 2 And the springs of the deep and the windows of the heavens were shut up (Niph., Impf., 3mp, rks) and the rain from heaven was restrained (Niph., Impf., 3ms, alk).
\v 3 And the water returned from upon the earth, going and returning, and the water receded (Qal, Impf., 3mp, rs@j*) at the end of one hundred and fifty days.
\v 4 And the ark rested on the seventh month on the seventeenth day of the month on the mountains of Ararat.
\v 5 And the waters were going and receding (rs@j*) until the tenth month; on the tenth, the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were visible.
\v 6 And it happened at the end of the forty days that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made.
\v 7 And he sent a raven and it went out and around and returned until the water dried up (Qal, Inf. Con., vb@y*) from upon the earth.
\v 8 And he sent a dove from with him to see whether the waters had abated from upon the face of the ground.
\v 9 And the dove did not find a resting place for the sole of her foot and she returned to him to the ark for the water was on the face of all the earth, and he stretched out his hand and he took her and he brought her to himself to the ark.
\v 10 And he waited (Qal, Impf., 3ms, ljy) still another seven days and again he sent the dove from the ark.
\v 11 And the dove came to him in the evening time and behold a fresh-plucked olive leaf was in her beak and Noah knew that the waters had abated (llq) from upon the earth.
\v 12 And he waited yet another seven days and he sent the dove and she did not return again to him.
\v 13 And it happened in the six hundred and first year on the first (month), on the first (day) of the month that the waters were dried up from upon the earth and Noah took off (Hiph., Impf., 3ms, rws) the covering of the ark and he looked and behold the face of the ground was dried up.
\v 14 And in the second month on the twenty-seventh day of the month the land was dried up.
\v 15 And God spoke to Noah saying,
\v 16 “Go out from the ark, you and your wife and your sons and the wives of your sons with you.
\v 17 All the animals which are with you from all flesh with birds and cattle and with all the creeping things that creep on the land bring out with you and they will swarm (Qal, Per., 3mp, Jrv) on the earth and be fruitful and multiply on the earth.”
\v 18 So Noah and his sons and his wife and the wives of his sons with him went out.
\v 19 All the animals, all the creeping things, all the birds, everything which creeps on the land went out by their kinds from the ark.
\v 20 And Noah built an altar to the Lord and he took from all the clean cattle and from all the clean birds and he sacrificed a burnt offering on the altar.
\v 21 And the Lord smelled (Hiph., Impf., 3ms, jyr) the soothing aroma and the Lord said in his heart, “I will not again curse the ground on account of man for the purpose of the heart of man is evil from his youth and I will not again strike every living thing which I have made.
\v 22 As all the days of the earth continue, seed and harvest and cold and heat and summer and harvest and day and night they will not cease.”