\c 14
\p
\v 1 And in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam and Tidal king of Goiim,
\v 2 they made war with Bera king of Sodom and Birsha king of Gomorah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim and the king of Bela, that is Zoar.
\v 3 All these came as allies to the valley of Siddim, which is the salt sea.
\v 4 Twelve years they had served Chedorlaomer and thirteenth year they rebelled.
\v 5 In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him came and struck the Rephaim in Ashteroth-Karnaim and the Zuzim in Ham and the Emim in Shaveh-Kiriathaim,
\v 6 and the Horites in their Mount Seir as far as El-Paran which is in the wilderness.
\v 7 And they returned and they came to En-Mishpat, that is Kadesh, and struck all the field of the Amalekites and also the Amorites who were living in Hazazon-tamar.
\v 8 And the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboiim, the king of Bela, that is Zoar, went out and they took up battle positions against them in the valley of Siddim,
\v 9 against Chedorlaomer king of Elam and Tidal king of Goiim and Amraphel king of Shinar and Arioch king of Ellasar—four kings with five.
\v 10 And the valley of Siddim was full of tar pits and the kings of Sodom and Gomorah fled and they fell there and the rest fled to the hills.
\v 11 And they took all the equipment of Soddom and Gomorah and all their food and they went.
\v 12 And they took Lot and his possessions, the nephew of Abram, and they went. Now he was living in Sodom.
\v 13 And a fugitive came and told to Abram the Hebrew. Now he was living in the Oaks of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol and brother of Aner, and they were masters (?) of a covenant with Abram.
\v 14 And Abram heard that his kinsman had been taken captive he took out his trained men, those born in his house, three hundred and eighteen, and he pursued them as far as Dan.
\v 15 And he divided (his men) against them by night, he and his servants, and struck them and pursued them as far as Hobah which is North of Damascus.
\v 16 And he returned all the possessions and also Lot his kinsman and his possessions he returned and also the women and the people.
\v 17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after he returned him from the defeat of Chedorlaomerand the kings who were with him at the valley of Shaveh, that is the valley of the King.
\v 18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine and he was a priest of the Most Hight God.
\v 19 And he blessed them and said, “Blessed be Abram by the Most High God, Creator of heaven and earth.
\v 20 And blessed be the Most High God who delivered your enemies into your hand.” And he gave to him a tenth of all.
\v 21 And the king of Sodom said to Abram, “Give to me the lives and the possessions take for yourself.
\v 22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom, “I raise up my hand to the Lord, the Most High God, Creator of heaven and earth,
\v 23 whether a thread or a thong of a sandal, I will not take from all which is yours so that you will not say I made Abram rich,
\v 24 except for only what the men have eaten and the portion of the men who went with me, Aner, Eschol, and Mamre. They will take their share.”