\c 10
\p
\v 1 And after Abimelech Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, arose to save Israel and he lived in Shamir in the hill country of Ephraim.
\v 2 And he judged Israel twenty-three years and he died and was buried in Shamir.
\v 3 And after him Jair the Gileadite arose and he judged Israel twenty-two years.
\v 4 And he had thirty sons riding on thirty donkeys and their thirty cities are called Havvoth-Jair to this day, which is in the land of Gilead.
\v 5 And Jair dired and was buried in Kamon.
\v 6 Then the Israelites again did evil in the eyes of the Lord and they served the Baals and the Ashtaroth and the gods of Aram and the gods of Sidon and the gods of Moab and the gods of the Ammonites and the gods of the Philistines and they abandoned the Lord and did not serve him.
\v 7 And the anger of the Lord burned against Israel and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines and in the hand of the Ammonites.
\v 8 And they shattered and smashed the Israelites that year—eighteen years all the Israelites who were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites who are in Gilead.
\v 9 And the Ammonites crossed the Jordan to fight also against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim and it made Israel exceedingly distressed.
\v 10 And the Israelites cried out to the Lord saying, “We have sinned against you and indeed we have abandoned our God and served the Baals.”
\v 11 And the Lord said to the Israelites, “Did I not deliver you from Egypt and from the Amorites and from the Ammonites and from the Philistines?
\v 12 An the Sidonians and the Amalekites and the Maonites oppressed you and you cried out to me and I rescued you from their hand.
\v 13 and you abandoned me and served other gods, therefore I will not again deliver you.
\v 14 Go and cry out to the gods which you have chosen—let them deliver you in the time of your distress.”
\v 15 And the Israelites said to the Lord, “We have sinned. Do to us according to all that is good in your eyes only save us please this day.”
\v 16 And they put away the foreign gods from their midst and they served the Lord and his soul was impatient with the misery of Israel.
\v 17 And the Ammonites were called and they camped in Gilead and the Israelites gathered and camped in Mizpah.
\v 18 And the people, the leaders of Gilead, said to one another, “Who is the man who will begin to fight against the Ammonites? He will be the head of all the inhabitants of Gilead.”