\c 17
\p
\v 1 And it happened that Abram was ninety-nine years old and the Lord appeared to Abram and he said to him, “I am El-Shaddai (God Almighty?); walk (Hith., Impv., m, s, Elh) before me and be perfect.
\v 2 And (in order that) I will set (cohortative) my covenant between me and you and I may multiply you exceedingly.”
\v 3 And Abram fell on his face and God spoke with him saying,
\v 4 “I, behold my covenant with you and you will become a father of a great number of nations.
\v 5 And Abram will not be called your name again but your name will be Abraham for I set you as a father of a great number of nations.
\v 6 And I will make you exceedingly fruitful (Hiph., Per., 1cs, hrp) and I will make you into nations and kings will go out from you.
\v 7 And I will establish (Hiph., Per., 1cs, <Wq) my covenant between me and you and your seed after you to their generations for an everlasting covenant to be your God and for your seed after you.
\v 8 And I will give to you and to your seed after you the land of your sojournings, the whole land of Canaan for an everlasting possession and I will be their God.”
\v 9 And God said to Abraham, “And you shall keep my covenant, you and your seed after you, for their generations.
\v 10 this is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your seed after you, circumcise (Niph., Inf. Abs., lWm) every male of yours.
\v 11 And you will be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin and it will be a sign of the covenant between me and you.
\v 12 And a son of eight days, every male of yours, shall be circumcised (Niph., Impf., 3ms, lWm) for your generations, born in your house and purchased with silver from every foreign son which is not from your seed.
\v 13 The (servant) born in your house or purchased with silver shall surely be circumcised and my covenant wil be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
\v 14 But an uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that life will be cut off from its people; he has broken (Hiph., Per., 3ms, rrp) my covenant.”
\v 15 And God said to Abraham, “Sarai your wife, you will not call her name Sarai for her name will be Sarah.
\v 16 And I will bless (Pi., Per., 1cs, Erb) her and also I will give from her to you a son and I will bless her and she will be (a mother) of nations, kings of peoples will come from her.”
\v 17 And Abraham fell on his face and he laughed (Qal, Impf., 3ms, qjx) and he said in his heart, “Will a son be born to a hundred year old (man)? And will Sarah, being ninety years old, give birth?”
\v 18 And Abraham said to God, “O that Ishmael may live before you!”
\v 19 And God said, “Truly Sarah your wife will bear for you a son and you will call his name Isaac and I will establish my covenant with him to be an everlasting covenant for his seed after him.
\v 20 And as for Ishmael I have heard you; behold I will bless him and make him fruitful and I will make him exceedingly numerous; he will father twelve princes and I will make him into a great nation.
\v 21 And I will establish my covenant with Isaach whom Sarah will bear for you at this season next year.”
\v 22 And he finished speaking with him and God went up from Abraham.
\v 23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son and all those born in his house and all purchased with his silver, every male among the men of the house of Abraham and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskin on that same day as God said to him.
\v 24 And Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised (Niph., Inf. Con., lWm) in the flesh of his foreskin.
\v 25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
\v 26 On that same day Abraham and Ishmael his son were circumcised.
\v 27 And all the men of his house, born in his house and purchased with silver from a foreigner were circumcised with him.