\c 7
\p
\v 1 And it happened when the king lived in his house that YHWH gave him rest from all his surrounding enemies,
\v 2 and the king said to Nathan the prophet, "See now, I am living in a house of cedar and the ark of God dwells inside the tent."
\v 3 And Nathan said to the king, "All that is in your heart go do, for YHWH is with you."
\v 4 And it happened that night that the word of YHWH came to Nathan saying,
\v 5 "Go and say to my servant David, 'Thus says YHWH: Will you build for me a house for me to dwell?
\v 6 For I have not dwelled in a house from the day I brought the children of Israel out of Egypt, and until this day I have gone about in a tent, in a tabernacle.
\v 7 In every place where I go among all the children of Israel have I spoken a word to one of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel saying, "Why have you not built for me a house of cedar?"'
\v 8 And now thus say to my servant David, 'Thus says YHWH of Hosts: I took you from the flock from after the sheep to be a prince over my people Israel.
\v 9 And I will be with you in every place you go and I will cut down all of your enemies from before you, and I will make your name great like the name of the great ones who are on the earth.
\v 10 And I will establish a place for my people Israel and I will plant them and they will dwell in it (under? in place of?) and they will never tremble again and the children of injustice will not increase to afflict them as in former times
\v 11 And from the time when I appointed judges over my people Israel. And I will give rest to you from all your enemes and YHWH will tell to you that YHWH will build a house for you.
\v 12 When your days are full and you dwell with your fathers then I will raise your seed after you who will go out from your body and I will establish his kingdom.
\v 13 He will build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
\v 14 I will be a father to him and he will be a son to me, he who when he does wrong I will rebuke him with the rod of men and with the afflictions of the sons of man.
\v 15 And my fidelity will not turn aside from him as I turned it aside from with Saul whom I turn aside from before me.
\v 16 And your house and your kingdom will endure forever before you, your throne will be established forever.'"
\v 17 According to all these words and according to all this vision thus Nathan spoke to David.
\v 18 And the king David came and he sat before YHWH and he said, "Who am I, my Lord YHWH, and who is my house that you have brought me hither?
\v 19 And this was still small in your eyes, my Lord YHWH that you speak also to the house of your servant to afar and this instruction of man my Lord YHWH.
\v 20 And what can David add still to speak to you? And you yourself know your servant, my Lord YHWH.
\v 21 Because of your word and according to your heart you have done all this greatness to make your servant know.
\v 22 Therefore you are great, my Lord YHWH for there is no one like you and there is no god but you in all we have heard with our ears.
\v 23 And who is like your people Israel, one nation in earth whom God went to redeem as a people and to place his name and to do for you (pl) the great deeds and appearing to your land before your people whom you liberated for yourself from Egypt, nations and its gods.
\v 24 And you established for yourself your people Israel as a people forever, and you YHWH are their God.
\v 25 And now YHWH, God, the word which you have spoke to your servant and to his house, cause to stand forever and do according to what you have spoke.
\v 26 And may your name be great forever, saying, 'YHWH of Hosts is God over Israel,' and the house of your servant David will be established before you.
\v 27 For you YHWH of Hosts, God of Israel, have uncovered the ear of your servant saying, 'I will build for you a house.' Therefore your servant has found heart to pray to you this prayer.
\v 28 And now my Lord YHWH you are God and your words are trustworthiness and you speak to your servant this good thing.
\v 29 And now may it begin (?) and bless the house of your servant to be before you forever for you my Lord YHWH speak and from your blessing the house of your servant is blessed forever."