\c 9
\p
\v 1 Hear, O Israel, you are crossing over the Jordan this day to go take possession of nations greater and mightier than you, cities great and inaccessible in the heavens,
\v 2 a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom you have known and you have hear, 'Who may stand before the sons of Anak?'
\v 3 And you shall know today that YHWH your God is crossing over before you, he is a consuming fire, he will destroy them, and he will humble them before you and you will dispossess them and destroy them quickly just as YHWH said to you.
\v 4 Do not say in your heart when YHWH your God pushes them from before you saying, 'By my righteousness YHWH brought me to possess this land' but by the wickedness of these nations YHWH is dispossessing them from before you.
\v 5 It is not by your righteousness or by the uprightness of your heart that you have come to possess their land, for by the wickedness of these nations YHWH your God is dispossessing them from before you and in order to fulfill the word YHWH swore to your fathers to Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob.
\v 6 And you shall know that it by your righteousness is YHWH your God giving this good land to you to possess it, for you are a hard-necked people.
\v 7 Remember, do not forget how you enraged YHWH your God in the desert and from the day you went out of the land of Egypt until you came to this place you have been rebellious with YHWH.
\v 8 And at Horeb you made YHWH angry, and YHWH was angry with you to destroy you.
\v 9 When I went up to the mountain to take the tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant which YHWH ha dmade with you, and I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights, I did not eat bread or drink water.
\v 10 And YHWH gave to me two tablets of stone written by the finger of God and upon them according to all the words that YHWH spoke with you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly.
\v 11 And it happened at the end of forty days and forty nights that YHWH gave to me the two tablets of stone, tablets of the covenant.
\v 12 And YHWH said to me, 'Arise, go down quickly from this (place) for your people has ruined what you have brought out of Egypt; they have turned aside quickly from the way that I commanded them; they have made for themselves an image.
\p
\v 13 And YHWH said to me, "I have seen this people, and behold it is a hard-necked people.
\v 14 Leave me and I will destroy them and wipe out their name from under heaven and I will make you into a nation mightier and greater than they."
\v 15 And I turned and went down from the mountan and the mountain was burning with fire and the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands.
\v 16 And I looked and behold you had sinned against YHWH your God; you had made for yourselves a golden-cast calf; you had turned quickly from the way which YHWH commanded you.
\v 17 And I took hold of the two tablets and I put them in my two hands and I broke them before your eyes.
\v 18 And I fell before YHWH as at first forty days and forty nights; bread I did not eat and water I did not drink on account of all your sin which you had sinned to do evil in the eyes of YHWH to provoke him to anger.
\v 19 For I was afraid from before the anger and the rage that YHWH was angry against you to destroy you, and YHWH listened to me even this time.
\v 20 And with Aaron YHWH was so angry he would destroy him and I prayed also for Aaron at that time.
\v 21 And your sin that you had done---I took the calf and I burned it with fire and I crushed it, ground it well until it was fine as dust and I threw its dust into the stream that was going down from the mountain.
\v 22 And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibroth-hattaavah you had provoked YHWH to anger.
\v 23 And when YHWH sent you from Kadesh-barnea saying, "Go up and take possession of the land that I have given to you," and you were rebellious against the mouth of YHWH your God and you were not faithful to him, and you did not listen to his voice.
\v 24 You were rebellious with YHWH from the deay I knew you.
\v 25 And I fell before YHWH forty days and forrty nights, which I fell for YHWH said he would destroy you.
\v 26 And I prayed to YHWH and I said, "Lord, YHWH, do not destroy your peopel and your property that you have redeemed in your greatness, that you have brought out of Egypt by a strong hand.
\v 27 Remember your servants Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; do not turn to the obstinacy of this poeple and to its wickedness and ot its sin,
\v 28 lest they say, th eland that you brought us from there, "Because YHWH was not able to bring them to the land that he said to them and because he hated them he brought them out to kill them in the desert.
\v 29 And they are your people and your property that you have brought out by your great strength and by your outstretched arm.