\c 10
\p
\v 1 At that time YHWH said to me, "Hew for yourself two tabples of stone like the former ones and go up to me to the mountain, and you shall make for yourself an ark of wood.
\v 2 And I will write on the tablets the words that were on the former tablets that you broke and you shall place them in the ark."
\v 3 And I made an ark of acacia wood and I hewed two stone tablets like the former ones, and I went up to the mountain and the two tablets were in my hand.
\v 4 And he wrote on the tablets as he had written formerly the ten words that YHWH spoke to you on the mountain in the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly, and YHWH gave them to me.
\v 5 And I turned and went down from the mountain and I placed the tablets in the ark that I made and they were there as YHWH commanded me.
\p
\v 6 Now the children of Israel journeyed from Beeroth Bene0jaakan to Moserah. There Aaron died and was buried there. And Eleazer his son served as priest in his place.
\v 7 From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of streams of water.
\v 8 At that time YHWH singled out the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of the covenant of YHWH, to stand before YHWH, to serve him and to bless in his name until this day.
\v 9 Therefore Levi does not have a portion or an inheritance with his brothers; YHWH is his inheritance, just as YHWH your God said to him.
\p
\v 10 And I stood on the mountain as the first forty days and forty nights, and YHWH heard me, also that time. YHWH was not willing to destroy you.
\v 11 And YHWH said to me, "Get up, go to depart before the people and they will come and take possession of th eland that I swore to their fathers to give to them."
\p
\v 12 And now, O Israel, What does YHWH your God ask of you except to fear YHWH your God to walk in all his ways and to love him and to serve YHWH your God with all your heart and with all your soul,
\v 13 to keep the commands of YHWH and his tatutes that I am commanding you today, for your good.
\v 14 Behold to YHWH your God belongs th eheavens and the heavens aof heavens, the earth and all that is in it.
\v 15 Only your fathers YHWH desired to love them and he chose their seed after them, you from all the peoples, as on this day.
\v 16 And you shall circumcise the foreskin of your heart and your neck you shall be difficult any longer.
\v 17 For YHWH your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the God who is great and mighty and fearsome, who does not lift faces, and he does not take a bribe.
\v 18 He does justice for the orphan and the widow, and he loves the sojourner to give to him bread and cloak.
\v 19 And you shall love the sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
\v 20 YHWH your God you shall fear, him you shall serve, and to him you shall cling, and by his name you shall swear.
\v 21 He is your praise, and he is your God, who has done for you these great and fearsome things which your eyes have seen.
\v 22 Seventy persons your fathers went down to Egypt, and now YHWH your God has made you like the stars of the heavens for multitude.