\c 18
\p
\v 1 And in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah became king.
\v 2 He was twenty five years old when he became king and he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem and the name of his mother was Abi, the daughter of Zechariah.
\v 3 And he did right in the eyes of the Lord according to all that David his father did.
\v 4 He removed the high places and broke down the pillars and cut down the Ashera and beat in pieces the bronze serpet which Moses had made for until those days the Israelites were burning incense to it and it was called Nehushtan.
\v 5 He trusted in the Lord the God of Israel and after him there was no one like him in all the kings of Judah, nor among those before him.
\v 6 And he clung to the Lord and did not depart from after him and he kept his commandments which the Lord commanded to Moses.
\v 7 And the Lord was with him—wherever he weng out he prospered. And he rebelled against the king of Assyria and did not serve him.
\v 8 he struck the Philistines as far as Gaza and its border, from watchtower to fortified city.
\v 9 And in the fourth year of King Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria went up to Samaria and besieged it.
\v 10 And he captured it at the end of three years, in the sixth year of Hezekiah, which was the ninth year of Hoshea, king of Israel, Samaria was captured.
\v 11 And the King of Assyria exiled Israel to Assyria and let them to Halah and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes
\v 12 because they did not obey the Lord their God and they transgressed his covenant, all of which Moses the servant of the Lord commanded and they did not listen nor do it.
\v 13 And in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria went up against all the fortified cities of Judah and seized them.
\v 14 And Hezekiah, king of Judah, sent to the king of Assyria at Lachish saying, “I have sinned. Return from against me; what you place on me I will bear.” And the king of Assyria placed on Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.
\v 15 And Hezekiah gave all the silver which was found in the house of the Lord and in the treasuries of the house of the king.
\v 16 At that time Hezekiah cut off the\f + \ft gold of\f* the doors of the temple of the Lord and the the supports which Hezekiah king of Judah overlayed and gave them to the king of Assyria.
\v 17 And the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rab-saris and Rabshakeh from Lachish to King Hezekiah with a large army to Jerusalem. And they went up anc came to Jerusalem and went ul and came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool which is on the highway of the field of the fuller.
\v 18 And they called to the king and Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, went out to them and Shebnah the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder.
\v 19 And Rabshakeh said to them, “Say now to Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria, “What is this trust which you trust?
\v 20 You speak, ‘Only the word of the lips of counsel and strength for war.’ Now on whom do you trust for you have rebelled against me?
\v 21 Now behold you trust on the staff of this crushed reed, on Egypt, on which if a man leans it will go into his hand and pierce it. So is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him.
\v 22 And if you say to me, ‘We trust in the Lord our God,’ is it not he whose high places and altars Hezekiah has taken way and has said to Judah and to Jerusalem, ‘Before this altar you shall worship in Jerusalem’?
\v 23 And now exchange with my lord the King of Assyria and I wil give to you two thousand horses if you are able to place riders on them.
\v 24 And how shall you return the face of one captain of the least of my lord’s servants and trust in Egypt for chariot and horsemen?
\v 25 Now have I come up against this place apart from the Lord to destroy it? The Lord said to me, ‘Go up against this land and destroy it.’”’”
\v 26 And Eliakim the son of Hiliah and Shebnah and Joah said to Rabshakeh, “Speak now to your servants in Aramaic for we hear and do not speak with us in Judean in the hearing of the people who are on the wall.”
\v 27 But Rabshakeh said to them, “Has my lord sent me to your lord and to you to speak these words? Is it not to the men sitting on the wall eating their dung and drinking their urine with you?”
\v 28 Then Rabshakeh stood and called in a loud voice in Judean and he spoke and he said, “Hear the word of the great king, the king of Assyria.
\v 29 Thus says the King, ‘Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you from his hand\f + \ft my hand\f* ;
\v 30 and do not let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord saying “The Lord will surely deliver us and this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.”
\v 31 Do not listen to Hezekiah for thus says the king of Assyria, make your prosperity with me and go out to me and eat each of his vine and each of his fig tree and drink each man from the waters of his cistern
\v 32 until I come and take you to a land like your land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land olive trees and honey and live and not die, and do not listen to Hezekiah when he allures you saying, “The Lord will deliver us.”
\v 33 Have the gods of the nations surely delivered for a man his land from the hand of the king of Assyria?
\v 34 Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena and Ivvah? For have they delivered Samaria from my hand?
\v 35 Who among all the gods of the lands which has delivered their land from my hand that the Lord will deliver Jerusalem from my hand?’”
\v 36 And the people were silent and did not answer him a word for the commandment of the king was, “Do not answer him.”
\v 37 And Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebnah the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah, clothes torn, and they told to him the words of Rabshakeh.