\c 12
\p
\v 1 And the Lord said to Abram, “Go for yourself from your land and from your kindred and from the house of your father to the land which I will show you (Hiph., Impf., 1cs, 2ms suff., har).
\v 2 I will make you into a great nation and I will bless you. I will make your name great and (you) be (Qal, Impv., ms, hyh) a blessing.
\v 3 I will bless those who bless you and those who curse you I will curse, and all the families of the earth will be blessed on account of you.
\v 4 And Abram went as the Lord had said to him, and Lot went with him. Now Abram was seventy-five years old when we went out from Haran.
\v 5 And Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot, his brother’s son, and all their property which they collected (Qal, Per., 3cp, vkr) and the person(s) which they made/acquired in Haran and they went out to go to the land of Canaan and they came to the land of Canaan.
\v 6 And Abram passed over the land until the place at Shechem, to the great tree of Moreh. Now the Canaanites were in the land at that time.
\v 7 And the Lord appeared to Abram and he said, “To your seed I will give this land.” And he built there an altar to the Lord who appeared to him.
\v 8 And he proceeded (Hiph., Impf., 3ms, qtu) from there to the mountain from the east to Bethel and he pitched (Qal, Impf., 3ms, hfn) his tent, Bethel from the west and Ai from the east, and he built there an altar to the Lord and he called on the name of the Lord.
\v 9 And Abram set out (Qal, Impf., 3ms, usn), going and journeying to the Negev.
\v 10 And there was a famine in the land and Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there for the famine was heavy on the land.
\v 11 And it happened as he approached to come to Egypt that he said to Sarai his wife, “Behold, please I know that you are a woman beautiful in appearance.
\v 12 And it will be that the Egyptians will see you and they will say, ‘This is his wife,’ and they will kill me and they will let you live (Pi., Impf., 3ms, hyj).
\v 13 Please say you are my sister so that it will be well for me on account of you and my life will live on account of you.”
\v 14 And it happened as Abrham came to Egypt that the Egyptians saw (his) wife, that she was exceedingly beautiful.
\v 15 And the officials of Pharah saw her and they praised her to Pharaoh and the woman was taken to the house of Pharaoh.
\v 16 And he did good to Abram on account of her and he “acquired” (lit., “there were to him”) sheep and cattle and donkeys and servants and female servants and female donkeys and camels.
\v 17 And the Lord struck Pharaoh with great plagues with his house on account of the matter of Sarai the wife of Abram.
\v 18 And Pharaoh called to Abram and he said, “What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she is your wife?
\v 19 Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,” and I took her to myself for a wife? And now, behold, take your wife and go.”
\v 20 And Pharaoh commanded men concerning him and they sent him away with his wife and all which was his.