\c 20
\p
\v 1 And Abraham departed from there to the land of the Negev and he lived between Kadesh and Shur and he sojourned in Gerar.
\v 2 And Abraham said about Sarah his wife, “She is my sister,” and Abimelech the king of Gerar sent and took Sarah.
\v 3 And God came to Abimelech in a dream at night and he said to him, “Behold you are dead because of the woman whom you took. She is married to a husband.”
\v 4 And Abimelech did not go near her and he said, “Lord, shall you kill also a righteous nation?
\v 5 Did he not say to me, ‘She is my sister?’ and she even she said, ‘He is my brother,’? In the integrity of my heart and in the innocency of my hands I did this.”
\v 6 And God said to him in a dream, “Even I know that in the integrity of your heart you did this and I even I withheld you from sinning against me. Therefore I did not let you touch her.
\v 7 And now return the wife of the man for he is a prophet and he will pray for you and you will live (Impv.). And if you do not return her, know that you will surely die, you and all which is yours.”
\v 8 And Abimelech rose in the morning and he called to all his servants and he spoke all these words in their ears and the men were exceedingly afraid.
\v 9 And Abimelech called Abraham and he said to him, “What is this you have done to us? And how have I sinned against you that you bring upon me and on my kingdom a great sin? You have done deeds with me which are not done.”
\v 10 And Abimelech said to Abraham, “What have you seen that you have done this thing?”
\v 11 And Abraham said, “Because I said, surely there is no fear of God in this plaace and they will kill me on account of my wife.
\v 12 And also indeed she is my sister, the daughter of my father, only not the daughter of my mother and she is my wife.
\v 13 And when God caused me to wander from the house of my father I said to her, ‘This is your kindness which you shall do for me in every place we go, say of me, “He is my brother.”’”
\v 14 And Abimelech took sheep and cattle and servants and maidservants and gave them to Abraham and returned Sarah his wife.
\v 15 And Abimilech said, “Behold my land is before you—live where it is good in your eyes.”
\v 16 And to Sarah he said, ‘Behold I give a thousand pieces of silver to your brother. Behold it is for you for a covering of the eyes for all who are with you and all are decided(?).”
\v 17 And Abraham prayed to God and God healed Abimelech and his wife and his maidservants and his children.
\v 18 For the Lord had surely restrained all the wombs of the house of Abimelech on account of the matter of Sarah the wife of Abraham.