\c 18
\p
\v 1 And the Lord appeared to him at the oaks of Mamre and he was sitting in the opening of his tent during the heat of the day.
\v 2 And the lifted up his eyes and he looked and behold three men were standing before him and he saw them and ran to meet them from the opening of his tent and he bowed down to the ground.
\v 3 And he said, “My lords, if I have found favor in your eyes please do not pass by your servant.
\v 4 Please take a little water and wash your feet and rest under the tree.
\v 5 And I will bring a piece of bread and you shall refresh yourselves. After that you will go on because you have passed by your servant.” And they said, “So, do as you said.”
\v 6 And Abraham hurried to the tent to Sarah and he said, “Hurry, three measures of fine flour, kneed and make bread cakes.”
\v 7 And Abraham ran to the cattle and he took a good and tender calf and he gave it to his servant and he hurried to prepare it.
\v 8 And He took curds and milk and the calk which he had prepared and he placed them before them and he sood by them under the tree and they ate.
\v 9 And they said to him, “Where is Sarah your wife?” And he said, “Behold, in the tent.”
\v 10 And he said, “I will surely return to you according to the time (?) and behold Sarah your wife will have a son.” Now Sarah heard from the opening of the tent and it was behind him.
\v 11 And Abraham and Sarah were old, coming in days. The way of women had ceased for Sarah.
\v 12 And Sarah laughed inside saying, “After I have grown old shall I have the pleasure and my lord is old?”
\v 13 And the Lord said to Abraham, “Why does this Sarah laugh saying, ‘Shall I truly indeed bear a child and I am old?’?
\v 14 Is it too marvelous for the Lord? At the appointed time I will return to you next year (?) and Sarah will have a son.”
\v 15 And Sarah lied saying, “I did not laugh.” For she was afraid and he said, “No, for you did laugh.”
\v 16 And The men rose from there and they looked down to the face of Sodom and Abraham went with them to send them off.
\v 17 And the Lord said, “Shall I hide from Abraham what I am doing?
\v 18 And Abraham will become a great and mighty nation and in him all the nations of the earth will be blessed.
\v 19 For I chose him so that he might command his sons and his ouse after him and they will keep the way of the Lord to do irghteousness and justice so that the Lord may bring on Abraham what he said to him.”
\v 20 And the Lord said, “The cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great and their sin is exceedingly heavy.
\v 21 I will go down and I will see what they have done according to the outcry which has come to me and if not I will know.”
\v 22 And the men turned from there and the came to Sodom and Abraham was still standing before the Lord.
\v 23 And Abraham drew near and he said, “Shall you indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked?
\v 24 Perhaps there are fifty righeous men in the midst of the city. “Shall you indeed sweep it way and not lift up the place for the sake of the fifty righteous men who are in it?
\v 25 Far be it for you to do according to this word to destroty the righteous with the wicked and the righteous will be like the wicked. Far be it for you, Judge of all the land, to not do justice!”
\v 26 And the Lord said, “If I find fifty righteous men in Sodom in the midst of the city then I will lift up all this place on their account.
\v 27 And Abraham answered and said, “Behold now I will be bold (יאל) to speak to my Lord and I am dust and ashes.
\v 28 Perhaps the fifty righteous men lack five. Shall you destroy the whole city on account of five?” And he said, “ I will not destroy it if I find there forty-five.”
\v 29 And He continued to speak to him and he said, “Perhaps there are found there forty.” And he said, “I will not do it on account of the forty.”
\v 30 And he said, “May my Lord not be angry and I will say herpahs there will be found there thirty.” And he said, “I will not do it if I find there thirty.
\v 31 And he said, “Behold now please let me be bold to speak to my Lord, perhaps twenty are found there.” And he said, “I will not destroy it on account of twenty.”
\v 32 And he said, “Please let my Lord not be angry and I will speak only this time, perhaps ten will be found there.” And he said, “I will not destroy on account of ten.
\v 33 And the Lord went as he finished speaking to Abraham and Abraham returned to his place.