\c 3
\p
\v 1 And we turned and we went up the way to Bashan and Og king of Bashan came out to meet us, he and all his people for battle at Edrei.
\v 2 And Yhwh said to me, "Do not fear him, for I have given him into your hand and all his people and his land and you shall do to him as you have done to Sihon king of the Amorites who dwells in Heshbob."
\v 3 And Yhwh our God gave Og king of Bashan into our hand and all his people and we struck him until no survivor remained.
\v 4 And we captured all his cities; at that time there was no city which we did not take from them; sixty cities all the region of Argob, kingdom of Og in Bashan.
\v 5 All these cities (with) unassailable walls, doors, and bars, aside from the cities of the open country which were exceedingly many.
\v 6 And we devoted them to the ban as we did to Sihon king of Heshbon, devoting to the ban every city, men, women, and children.
\v 7 And all the cattle and spoile of the cities we plundered for ourselves.
\v 8 And we took at that time the land from the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, from the Arnon gorge to Mount Hermon.
\v 9 The Sidonians call Hermon Sirion; the Amorites call it Senir.
\v 10 All the cities of the plain and all Gilead and all Bashan as far as Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
\v 11 For only Og King of Bashan remained from the rest of the Rephaim. Behold his couch was a couch of iron. Is it not Rabbah of the Ammonites? Nine cubits in length and four cubits in breadth in the cubit of a man.
\p
\v 12 And this is the land we took possession of at that time: From Aroer, which is at the Arnon valley, and half of the hill country of Gilead and its cities I have given to the the Reubenites and to the Gadites.
\v 13 And the rest of Gilead and all of Bashan the kingdom of Og I have given to the half tribe of Manasseh. All the region of Argob to all of Bashan is called the land of Rephaim.
\v 14 Jair of Manasseh took all the region of Argob as far as the border of the Geshurites and that Maacathites and he called them according to its name, Bashan, Havoth Jair, to this day.
\v 15 To Machir I gave Gilead.
\v 16 And to the Reubenites and to the Gadites I gave from Gideal as far as the Arnon valley, the middle of the valley and the border and as far as Jabbok the border of the Ammonites.
\v 17 And the Arabah and the Jordan and the border from Chinnereth as far as teh sea of the Arabah, the sea of salt, under the slopes of Pisgah to the east.
\p
\v 18 And I comanded you at that time saying, "Yhwh your God has given you this land to possess it; equipped, all you men of valor will pass through before your brothers the sons of Israel.
\v 19 Only your women and your families and your stock---I know you have much stock---will dwell in your cities which I have given to you.
\v 20 Until when Yhwh has given rest to your brothers as you and they possess also the land which Yhwh your God is giving to them across the Jordan and you will return each to his possession which I have given to you.'
\v 21 And I commanded Joshua at that time saying, 'Your eyes see all which Yhwh your God has done to these two kings. So Yhwh will do to all the kingdoms to which you are crossing over.
\v 22 You shall not fear them, for Yhwh your God is the one who fights for you.'
\p
\v 23 And I implored Yhwh at that time saying,
\v 24 O Lord Yhwh, you have begun to show your servant your greatness and your strong hand which what god in heaven and on the earth is there who will do as your deeds and as your strength?
\v 25 Let me pass over and see the good land which is on the other side of the Jordan, this good hill country and Lebanon.'
\v 26 And Yhwh was angry with me because of you and he did not listen to me and Yhwh said to me, 'Enough from you; Do not again speak to me on this matter.
\v 27 Go up to the top of Pisgah and lift up your eyes toward the west and to the north and to the south and to the east and see with your eyes because you shall not pass over this Jordan.
\v 28 And command Joshua and encourage and strengthen him for he will pass over before this people and he will give them rest in the land which you see.'
\v 29 And we stayed in the valley opposite Beth-peor.