\c 25
\p
\v 1 And Abraham again took a wife and her name was Keturah.
\v 2 And she bore him Zimran and Jokshan and Medan and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
\v 3 Jokshan fathered Sheba and Dedan and the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, and Leummim.
\v 4 The sons of Midian were Epha, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were sons of Keturah.
\v 5 Abraham gave all which was his to Isaac.
\v 6 And to the sons of Abraham’s concubines Abraham gave gifts and send them from Isaac his son while he was still living to the east to the land of the east.
\v 7 And these are the days of the years of the life of Abraham which he lived, 175 years.
\v 8 And he expired and Abraham died in a good old age old and satisfied and he was gathered to his people.
\v 9 And Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the cave of Machpelah in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite which is beside Mamre,
\v 10 the field which Abraham had bought from the Hittites. There Abraham was buried with Sarah his wife.
\v 11 And after the death of Abraham God blessed Isaac his son and Isaac dwelled at Beer-lahai-roi.
\v 12 And these are the generations of Ishmael, son of Abraham whom Hagar the Egyptian the maidservant of Sarah had born to Abraham.
\v 13 And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael with there names by their order of birth: the firstborn of Ishmael was Nebaioth, and Kedaar ,and Adbeel, Mibsam,
\v 14 Mishma, Duma, Massa
\v 15 Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah.
\v 16 These are the sons of Ishmael and these are their names by their settlements and their camps, twelve princes by their tribes.
\v 17 And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, 137 years, and he expired and died and he was gathered to his people.
\v 18 And they lived from Havilah to Shur which is on the face of Egypt as you come to Assyria. And before all his brothers he fell.
\v 19 And these are the generations of Isaac the son of Abraham. Abraham fathered Isaac.
\v 20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah the daughter of Bethuel the Aramean from Padan-aram, the sister of Laban the Aramean.
\v 21 And Isaac prayed to the Lord for his wife for she was barren. And the Lord was moved by his prayer and Rebekah his wife conceived.
\v 22 And the sons pushed each other around in her womb and she said, “If thus, why is this (happening to) me?” And she went to seek the Lord.
\v 23 And the Lord said to her, “Two nations are in your belly and two tribes in your bowels will be separated and one people will be stronger than the other people and the greater will serve the lesser.”
\v 24 And her days to give birth were filled and behold there were twins in her belly.
\v 25 And the first came out reddish, all of him like a fur garment, and they called his name Esau.
\v 26 And after thus his brother came out and his hand covered the heel of Esau and his name was called Jacob and Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them.
\v 27 And the boys grew and Esau was a man knowing hunting, a man of the field, and Jacob was peaceful, dwelling in the tents.
\v 28 And Isaac loved Esau because of the game was in his mouth and Rebekah loved Jacob.
\v 29 And Jacob was boiling lentils and Esau came from the field and he was exhausted.
\v 30 And Esau said to Jacob, “Please let me gulp down from this red-brown stuff for I am exhausted,” (therefore his name is called Edom).
\v 31 And Jacob said, “Sell to me now your birthright.
\v 32 And Esau said, “Behold I am coming to die and what is this birthright to me?”
\v 33 And Jacob said, “Swear to me now.” And he swore to him and he sold his birthright to Jacob.
\v 34 And Jacob gave to Esau bread and boiled lentils and he ate and drank and rose and went and Esau despised his birthright.