\c 16
\p
\v 1 And Sarai the wife of Abram did not bear a child for him but she had a Egyptian maid-servant and her name was Hagar.
\v 2 And Sarai said to Abram, “Behold, now, the Lord has restrained me from bearing children. Please go into my maidservant. Perhaps I will build from her.” And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.
\v 3 And Sarai the wife of Abram took Hagar the Egyptian her maidservant at the end of ten years of Abram living in the land of Canaan and she gave her to Abram her husband to be his wife.
\v 4 And he came to Hagar and she conceived and she saw the she had conceived and her mistress grew small in her eyes.
\v 5 And Sarai said to Abram, “My destruction is on account of you. I gave my maidservant into your lap and she saw that she had conceived and I became smaller in her eyes. Let the Lord judge between me and you.
\v 6 And Abram said to Sarai, “Behold your maidservant is in your hand. Do to her what is good in your eyes.” And Sarai mistreated her and she fled from before her.
\v 7 And the Angel of the Lord found her by a spring of water in the wildnerness by the spring on the way to Shur.
\v 8 And he said, “Hagar the maidservant of Sarai, from where have you come and where are you going?” And she said, “From before Sarai my mistress I have fled.”
\v 9 And the Angel of the Lord said to her, “Return to your mistress and stoop down under her hand.”
\v 10 And the Angel of the Lord said, “I will surely make your seed numerous and it will not be counted for its abundance.”
\v 11 And the Angel of the Lord said to her, “Behold you are pregnant and you will bear a son and you will call him Ishmael for the Lord has listened to your affliction.
\v 12 and he will be a wild donkey of a man. His hand will be against all and the hand of all will be against him and he will live before all his brothers.”
\v 13 And she gave a name to the Lord who spoke to her, “You are the God who sees,” for she said, “Have I not also here seen after the one who sees me?(?)”
\v 14 Therefore it is called Beer-lahai-roi; behold it is between Kadesh and Bered.
\v 15 And Hagar bore a son to Abram and Abram called the name of his son which Hagar had borne, Ishmael.
\v 16 And Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.