\c 12
\p
\v 1 These are the statutes and the judgments that you shall keep, to do them in the land that Yhwh, God of your fathers, has given to you to possess all the days that you live in the land.
\v 2 You shall surely destroy every place where the nations that you are dispossessing serve their gods on the high mountains and on the hills and under every leafy tree.
\v 3 And you shall tear down their altars and you shall break their memorial stones and their Asheroth you shall burn with fire and the images of their gods you shall cut off and you shall destroy their name from that place.
\v 4 You shall not do this to Yhwh your God.
\v 5 But to the place where Yhwh your God has chosen from all your tribes to place his name there, for his dwelling, you shall seek and you shall go there.
\v 6 And you shall bring there your burnt offerings and your sacrifices and your tithes and the contribution of your hand and your oaths and your voluntary offerings and the first-born of your herd and your sheep.
\v 7 And you will eat there before YHWh your GOd and you shall rejoice in every undertaking your hand, you and your household , which Yhwh your God has blessed you.
\v 8 You shall not do according to all that we are doing here today, a man doing everything that is right in his eyes.
\v 9 For you have not come until now to the resting place and to the inheritance what Yhwh your God is giving you.
\v 10 And you will pass over the Jordan and you will dwell in the land that Yhwh your God is giving you as an inheritance, and he will give you rest from all your enemies around you and you will dwell secure.
\v 11 And it will be the place that Yhwh your God will choose to make his name dwell there, there you shall bring all that I am commanding you, your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes and the contribution of your hand, and all your choicest vow offerings that you promise to Yhwh.
\v 12 And you shall rejoice before Yhwh your God, you and your sons and your daughters and your servants and your maidservances and the livites who are in your gates, for there is no portion or inheritance for him with you.
\v 13 Guard yourself lest you offer your burnt offerings inany place that you see.
\v 14 Only at the place that Yhwh will choise in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt offerings and there you shall do all that I am commanding you.
\v 15 Only in every longing of your soul you shall slaughter and eat meat according to the blessing of Yhwh your God which he has given you in all your gates; the unclean and the clean may eat of it like the gazelle and the deer.
\v 16 Only the blood you shall not eat; on the ground you shall pour it out like water.
\v 17 You shall not be able to eat in your gates the tithe of your grain and your wine and your oil and the first-born of your cattle and your sheep and all your vow offerings which you shall vow and your voluntary offering and the contribution of your hand.
\v 18 But before Yhwh your God you shall it them in th eplace where Yhwh your God has chosen; in it you and your son and your daughter and your servant and your maidservant and the livite who ins in your gate and you shall rejoice before Yhwh your God in every undertaking of your hand.
\v 19 Guard yourself lest you abandon the Levite all your days on the land.
\p
\v 20 When Yhwh your God will expand your territory as he spoke to you, and you say, "I will eat meat" because your soul desires to eat meat, in every desire of your soul you may eat meat.
\v 21 If the place where Yhwh your God will choose to place his name is too far from you, you shall slaughter from your cattle and from your sheep what Yhwh has given to you as I have commanded you, and you shall eat it in your gates in every desire of your soul.
\v 22 Surely as the gazelle and the deer is eaten, so you shall eat. The unclean and the clean may eat together.
\v 23 Only be strong not to eat the blod, for the blood is the life and you shall not eat the life with the meat.
\v 24 You shall not eat it; on the ground you shall pour it like water.
\v 25 You shall not eat it in order that it may be well for you and for your children after you, for you shall do what is right in the eyes of Yhwh.
\v 26 Only your holy things that will be yours and your vow offerings you shall take and go to the place where Yhwh has chosen,
\v 27 and you shall make your burnt offerings of the meat and the blood, on the altar of Yhwh your God and the blood of your sacrifice shall be pourd on the altar of Yhwh your God and the meat you shall eat.
\v 28 Keep and listen to all these words I am commanding you that it may be well for your and for your children after you forever, for you will do what is good and right in the eyes of Yhwh your God.
\p
\v 29 When Yhwh your God shall cut off the nations that you are going to dispossess from before you, and you possess them and dwell in their land,
\v 30 Watch yourself lest you become entagled with them, after their destruction from before you and lest you seek their gods, saying, "How did these nations serve their gods? Also I will do thus."
\v 31 You shall not do thus to Yhwh your God, for every abominable thing of Yhwh that he hates they do to their gods, for also their sons and their daughters they burn with fire to their gods.