\c 24
\p
\v 1 And Abraham was old, advanced in years, and the Lord blessed Abraham in all things.
\v 2 And Abraham said to his servant, the oldest of his house, who was in charge of all which iwas his, “Place your hand under my thigh
\v 3 and I will make you swear by the Lord the God of heaven and the God of the earth that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I live.
\v 4 For to my land and to my relations you shall go and you shall take a wife for my son for Isaac.”
\v 5 And the servant said to him, “Perhaps the woman will not be willing to come after me to this land. Shall I surely return your son to the land from which you came?
\v 6 And Abraham said to him, “Be sure that you do not return my son there.
\v 7 The Lord, the God of heaven who took me from the house of my father and from the land of my relatives and who spoke to me and swore to me saying, ‘To your seed I give this land,’ he will send his angel before you and you will take a wife for my son from there.
\v 8 But if the woman is not willing to go after you then you are free from this oath of mine, only you shall not take my son back there.”
\v 9 And the servant placed his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master and he swore to him over this matter.
\v 10 And the servant took then camels from the camels of his master and he went and all the best of his master’s things in his hand, and he arose and went to Aram-Naharaim to the city of Nahor.
\v 11 And he made the camels kneel outside the city by the well of water during the evening at the time the the water drawers come out.
\v 12 And he said, “O Lord, God of my master Abraham, please direct before me this day and do steadfast love with my master Abraham.
\v 13 Behold I stand by the spring of water and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water.
\v 14 And let the young woman to whom I say, ‘Please let down your jar that I may drink,’ and she shall say, ‘Drink and also your camels I will water,’ you will determine her for your servant for Isaac and with her I will know that you have dealt with steadfast love with my master.”
\v 15 And it happened before he finished speaking that behold Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel son of Milcah, wife of Nahor, Abraham’s brother, and her jar was on her shoulder.
\v 16 Now the young woman was very beautiful in appearance, a virgin and no man had known her, and she went down to the spring and she filled her jar and came up.
\v 17 And the servant ran to meet her and he said, “Please let me sip a little water from your jar.”
\v 18 And she said, “Drink, my lord.” And she hurried and let down her jar on her hand and gave him a drink.
\v 19 And when she finished giving him a drink she said, “Also for your camels I will draw water until they have finished drinking.”
\v 20 And she hurried and poured out her jar into the watering trough and she ran again to the wellk to draw water and she drew for all his camels.
\v 21 And the man stood gazing at her keeping silent to know whether the Lord had made his way successful or not.
\v 22 And when the camels finished drinking the man took a gold ring weighing a half shekel and two bracelets on her arms weighing ten gold shekels.
\v 23 And he said, “Please tell me whose daughter you are. Is there a place in your father’s house for us to lodge?”
\v 24 And she said to him, “I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Milcah who was born to Nahor.”
\v 25 And she said to himj, “Also we have lots of straw and fodder and a place to lodge.”
\v 26 And the man bowed down and worshipped the Lord.
\v 27 And he said, “Blessed be the Lord, God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken his steadfast love and his faithfulness to my master. As for me, the Lord has let me on the way of the house of the brother of my master.”
\v 28 And the young woman ran and told the house of her mother about these things.
\v 29 And Rebekah had a brother whose name was Laban and Laban ran to the man outside to the spring.
\v 30 And when he saw the ring and the braceles on the arms of his sister and heard the words of Rebekah his sister saying, “Thus the man said to me,” he came to the man and behold he was standing by the camels by the spring.
\v 31 And he said, “Come, one blessed by the Lord. Why do you stand outside? And I have cleared the house and there is a place for your camels.”
\v 32 And the man came to the house and he unsaddled the camels and he gave the camels straw and fodder and water two wash his feed and the feet of the men who were with him.
\v 33 And (food) was placed before him to eat and he said, “I will not eat until when I speak my words.” He said, “Speak.”
\v 34 And he said, “I am the servant of Abraham.
\v 35 And the Lord has blessed my master exceedingly and made him great and he gave to him sheep and cattle and silver and gold and servants and maidservants and camels and donkeys.
\v 36 And Sarah the wife of my master bore a son to my master in her old age and he has given to him all which is his.
\v 37 And my master made me swear, saying, ‘You shall not take a wife for my son from the houses of the Canaanites in whose land I am living.
\v 38 Instead you still go to the house of my father and to my clan and you will take a wife for my son.’
\v 39 And I said to my master, ‘Perhaps the woman will not follow after me.’
\v 40 And he said to me, “The Lord, before whom I have walked, will send his angel with you and he will give your way success and you will take a wife for my son from my clan and from the house of my father.
\v 41 Then you wil be free from my curse when you come to my clan and if they will not give (her) to you and you will be free from my curse.’
\v 42 And I came today to the spring and I said, ‘O Lord, God of my master Abraham, if you are prospering my way on which I have gone,
\v 43 behold I stand by the spring of water and let the young woman who comes out to draw water and to whom I say, “Please give me a little water to drink from your jar,”
\v 44 and she says to me, “Even you will drink and also for your camels I will draw water,” let her be the woman whom the Lord has determined for the son of my master.’
\v 45 Before I finished speaking in my heart behold Rebekah came out and her jar was on her shoulder and she let it down in the spring and drew water and I said to her, ‘Please give me a drink.’
\v 46 And she hurried and let down her jar from on her and she she said, “Drink, and also your camels I will water,’ and I drank and also she watered the camels
\v 47 and I asked her and I said, ‘Whose daughter are you?’ and she said, “The daughter of Bethuel, son of Nahor whom Milcah bore to him,’ and I placed the ring on her nose and the bracelets on her arms.
\v 48 And I bowed and worshipped the Lord and I blessed the Lord the God of my master Abraham who had led me on the way of truth to take a daughter of the brother of my master for his son.
\v 49 And now if you are doing steadfast love and truth with my master, tell me and if not tell me, that I may turn to the right or to the left.”
\v 50 And Laban and Bethuel answered and said, “From the lord the matter has come out. We cannot speak to you bad or good.
\v 51 Behold Rebekah is before you. Take (her) and go and she will be a wife for the son of your master as the Lord has spoken.”
\v 52 And when the servant of Abraham heard their words he bowed himself to the ground before the Lord.
\v 53 And the servant brought out the articles of silver and gold and garments and gave them to Rebekah and precious gifts he gave to her brother and to her mother.
\v 54 And they ate and drank, he and the men who were with him, and they lodged there and got up in the morning and he said, “Send me to my master.”
\v 55 And her brother and mother said, “Let the young woman stay with us some days or ten after that you will go.”
\v 56 And he said to them, “Do not delay me since the Lord has prospered my way. Send me and I will go to my master.”
\v 57 And they said, “let us call the young woman and we will ask her.”
\v 58 And they called to Rebekah and they said to her, “Shall you go with this man?” and she said, “I will go.”
\v 59 And they sent Rebekah their sister and her nurse and the servant of Abraham and his men.
\v 60 And the blessed Rebekah and they said to her, “Our sister, may you be thousands of ten thousands and may your seed possess the gate of those who hate him.”
\v 61 And Rebekah arose and her young women and they rode on camels and they came after the man and the servant took Rebekah and went.
\v 62 And Isaac had come from going to Beer-lahai-roi and was living in the land of the Negev.
\v 63 And Isaac went out to meditate(meaning unknown) in the field toward evening and he lifted his eyes and he saw and behold camels were coming.
\v 64 And Rebekah lifted her eyes and she saw Isaac and she got down from the camel.
\v 65 And she said to the servant, “Who is that man coming in the field to meet us?” And the servant said, “He is my master.” And she took the shawl and covered herself.
\v 66 And the servant recounted to Isaac all the thinkgs which he ha done.
\v 67 And Isaac brought her to the tent of Sarah his mother and took Rebekah and she became his wife and he loved her. And Issac was comforted after his mother.