\c 8
\p
\v 1 All the commandment that I command you today you shall keep to do it in order that you may live and multiply and come and take possession of the land that YHWH swore to your fathers.
\v 2 And you shall remembner all the way that YHWH your God brought you forty years in the desert so that he might humble you to test you to know what is in your heart, whether you would keep his commands or not.
\v 3 And he humbled you and let you starve and he fed you manna, which you did not know, nor did your father's know, in order that he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man will live by everything that comes out of the mouth of YHWH.
\v 4 Your cloak did not wear out from on you, and your feed did not swell these forty years.
\v 5 And you will know with your heart that just as a man teaches his son, so YHWH your God teaches you.
\v 6 And you shall keep the command of YHWH your God to walk in his ways and to fear him.
\v 7 For YHWH your God is bringing you to a good land, a land of streams of water, springs and deep springs going out in valley and hill.
\v 8 A land of wheat and barley and vine and fig and pomegranate, a land of olive oil and honey,
\v 9 a land where you will not eat bread in poverty, you will not lack anything in it, a land where its stones are iron and from its mountains you will dig out copper.
\v 10 And you will eat and be satisfied and you will bless YHWH your God for the good land which he has given you.
\v 11 Watch yourself lest you forget YHWH your God, that you keep his commands and his judgments and his statutes which I commanded you today.
\v 12 Lest you eat and are satisfied and you build good houses
\v 13 And your cattle and your sheep multiply and silver and gold multiplies for you, and all that is yours multiplies,
\v 14 And your heart becomes high and you forget YHWH your God who brought you out from the land of Egypt from the house of slavery,
\v 15 who led you in the great and fearsome desert, with saraph serpents and scorpions and thirsty regions where there is no water, who brought you water out of hard rock,
\v 16 who fed you manna in the desert that your fathers did not know in order to humble you and to test you to do go to you in the end.
\v 17 And you will say in your hearts, 'My strength and the might of my hand has made this wealth for me.'
\v 18 But you shall remember YHWH your God for he is giving to you strength to make wealth so that he might establish his covenant that he swore to your fathers as today.
\p
\v 19 And it will be if you surely forget YHWH your God and you walk after other gods and you serve them and you worship them, I witness against you today that you will surely die.
\v 20 As the nations tht YHWH is bringing to death from before you, thus you will die because you did not listen to the voice of YHWH your God.