\c 3
\p
\v 1 And Eliashib the High Priest and his brothers the priests arose and they built the sheep gate. They dedicated it and they set its doors and until the Tower of a Hundred they dedicated it until the Tower of Hananel.
\v 2 And next to him the men of Jericho built and on next to them Zaccur son of Imri built.
\v 3 And the sons of Hassenaah built the fish gate; they furnished its beams and they set its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
\v 4 And by their side Meremoth the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz repaired the wall; and on their side Meshullam son of Berekiah, son of Meshezabel repaired the wall; and on their side Zadok the son of Baana repaired the wall.
\v 5 And on their side the the men of Tekoa repaired the wall but their nobles did not bring their necks in the work of their masters.
\v 6 And Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam son of Besodeiah repaired the Jeshanah Gate. They laid its beams and they set its doors and its bolts and its bars.
\v 7 And on their side Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon of Meronoth made repairs, men of Gibeon and Mizpah for the throne of the governor of the Trans-Euphrates.
\v 8 On his side Uzziel the son of Harhaiah of the goldsmiths made repairs. And on his side Hananiah one of the perfumers made repairs; and they repaired Jerusalem as far as the broad wall.
\v 9 And on their side Rephaiah the son of Hur, official of half the district of Jerusalem, made repairs.
\v 10 And on their side Jedaiah son of Harumaph made repairs and it was opposite his house. And on his side Hattush the son of Hashabneiah made repairs.
\v 11 Malkijah son of Harim and Hasshub son of Pahath-Moab repaired the second stretch of wall and the Tower of the Ovens.
\v 12 And next to him Shallum son of Hallohesh, official of half the district of Jerusalem, made repairs, he and his daughters.
\v 13 Hanun and the inhabitands of Zanoah repaired the Valley Gate. They built it and they set its doors, its bolts, and its bars and a thousand cubits on the wall until the Dung Gate.
\v 14 And Malkijah son of Recab, official of the district of Beth Hakkerem, repaired the Dung Gate. He built it and he set its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
\v 15 And Shallum the son of Col-Hozeh, official of the district of Mizpah, repaired the Fountain Gate. He built it and he roofed it and he set its doors, its bolts, and its bars and the wall of the pool of Siloam at the garden of the king as far as the steps that go down from the city of David.
\v 16 After him Nehemiah son of Azbuk, official of half of the district of Beth Zur, made repairs to a point opposite the tombs of David and as far as the artificial (made) pool and as far as the House of the Mighty Ones.
\v 17 After him the Levites under Rehum son of Bani made repairs. On his side Hashabiah, official of half the district of Keilah, made repairs for his district.
\v 18 After him their brothers under Binnui son of Henadad, official of the other half of the district of Keilah, made repairs.
\v 19 Ezer son of Jeshua, official of Mizpah, made repairs at his side on another section from opposite the ascent of the armory of the angle.
\v 20 After him Baruch son of Zabbai zealously repaired another section from the angle as far as the entrance to the house of Eliashib the high priest.
\v 21 After him Meremoth son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz repaired another section from the entrance of the house of Eliashib and as far as the end of the house of Eliashib.
\v 22 And after him the priests, the men of the surrounding region, made repairs.
\v 23 After him Benjamin and Hasshub made repairs opposite their house. After him Azariah son of Maaseiah, the son of Ananiah, made repairs beside his house.
\v 24 After him Binnui son of Henadad repaired another section from the house of Azariah to the angle and to the corner.
\v 25 Palal son of Uzai was opposite the corner and the tower which goes out from the uppoer house of the king which is at the court of the guard. After him was Pedaiah son of Parosh.
\v 26 And the temple servants living on the hill (Ophel) made repairs as far as opposite the Water Gate toward the East and the projecting tower.
\v 27 After him the men of Tekoa repaired another section from oppposite the great projecting tower and to the wall of Ophel.
\p
\v 28 Above the Horse Gate the priests made repairs, each opposite his house.
\v 29 After him Zadok son of Immer made repairs opposite his house. And after him Shemaiah son of Shecaniah, the guard at the East Gate made repairs.
\v 30 Next Hananiah son of Shelemiah and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph made repairs to another section. After him Meshullam son of Berekiah made repairs opposite his room.
\v 31 Next Malkijah one of the goldsmiths made repairs as far as the house of the temple servants and the traders opposite the Inspection Gate and until the room of the corner.
\v 32 And between the room of the corner and the Sheep Gate the goldsmiths and traders made repairs.
\v 33
\v 34
\v 35
\v 36
\v 37
\v 38 .