\c 19
\p
\v 1 And when King Hezekiah heard he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and he came to the house of the Lord.
\v 2 And the sent Eliakim who was over the house and Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests covered with sackcloth to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.
\v 3 And they said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, ‘A day of distress and punishment and disgrace is this day for children have come to the opening of the womb and there is no strength to bear them.
\v 4 Perhaps the Lord your God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh whom the king of Assyria his lord has sent to reproach the Living God and he will rebuke the words which the Lord your God has heard. So lift up a prayer for the remnant which is found.’”
\v 5 And the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah
\v 6 and Isaiah said to them, “Thus you shall say to your lord, ‘Thus says the Lord. Do not be afraid of the things which you heard with which the servants of the king of Assyria blasphemed me.
\v 7 Behold I am giving a spirit in him and he will hear a rumor and return to his land and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his land.’”
\v 8 And Rabshakeh returned and he found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah for he had heard that he had set out from Lachish.
\v 9 And he heard concerning Tirhakah king of Cush saying, “Behold he went out to fight you.” And he returned and sent messengers to Hezekiah saying,
\v 10 “Thus you shall say to Hezekiah, King of Judah, ‘Do not let your god in whom you trust deceive you saying, “Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.”
\v 11 Behold you have heard what the kings of Assyria did to all the lands to destroy them completely and you will be spared?
\v 12 Did the gods of the nations whom my fathers have destroyed save them, even Gozan and Haran and Rezeph and the Edenites who were in Telassar?
\v 13 Where is the king of Hamath and the king of Arpad and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, and Henah and Ivvah?’”
\v 14 And Hezekiah took the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it and went up to the house of the Lrod and Hezekiah spread it out before the Lord.
\v 15 And Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and said, “O Lord God of Israel who sits on the cherubim, you are God alone with regard to all the kingdoms of the earth—you made heaven and earth.
\v 16 Incline your ear, O Lord, and hear. Open your eyes, O Lord, and see and hear the words of Sennacherib who sent it to reproach the living God.
\v 17 Truly, O Lord, the kinds of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands.
\v 18 And they have cast their gods in the fire for they were not gods but the work of the hand of man, wood and stone, and they destroyed them\f + \ft Piel\f* .
\v 19 And now, O Lord our God, save us please from his hand and let all the kingdoms of the earth know that you O Lord are the only God.”
\v 20 And Isaiah son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah saying, “Thus says the Lord God of Israel, ‘Because you have prayed to me regarding Sennacherib the king of Assyria I have heard.
\v 21 This is the word which the Lord has spoken against him, “She has despised you, mocked you, the virgin daughter of Zion; behind you the head she has waved, daughter of Jerusalem.
\v 22 Whom have you reproached and blasphemed? And against whom have you raised your oice and lifted your eyes high? Against the Holy One of Israel!
\v 23 By the hand of your messengers you have reproached the Lord and you have said, ‘With my chariots I have come up to the heights of the mountains, the extreme parts of Lebanon, and I cut its tall cedars and choice cypresses. And I came to its farthest lodging place, the forest of its garden-land.
\v 24 I dug and drank foreign water and laid waste with the sole of my feet all the streams of Egypt.’
\v 25 Have you not heard? From far I did it, from days aforetime. And I formed it now I have brought it and you are the one to crash into a heap of ruins fortified cities.
\v 26 And their inhabitants were short of arm; they were shattered and ashamed. They were like the herb of the field and herb of grass, grass of the rooftops and blighted before standing.
\v 27 But your sitting down and your going out and your coming in I know, and your raging against me.
\v 28 Because of your raging against me and your arrogance has come up to my ears, I will place a hook in your nose and my bridle in your lips and I will turn you back on the way which you came.”
\v 29 And this will be the sign for you: to eat this year what springs up of itself and in the second year what shoots up and in the third year sow and reap and plant vineyards and eat fruit.
\v 30 And the escaped remnant of the house of Judah will again have a root downwards and will make fruit upward.
\v 31 For out of Jerusalem shall go a remnant and an escaped remnant from Mount Zion. The Zeal of the Lord shall do this.’
\v 32 Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, ‘He shall not come to this city and he shall not shoot an arrow there and he shall not come before it with a shield and he shall not pour out a mound against it.
\v 33 On the way which he cam, by that he shall return and to this city he will not come,’ declares the Lord,
\v 34 ‘And I will defend this city to save it for myself and for David my servant.’”
\v 35 And that night the angel of the Lord went out and struck the camp of Assyria 185,000 and they got up in the morning and behold all of them were dead corpses.
\v 36 And Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and went and returned and lived in Nineveh.
\v 37 And when he was worshipping at the house of Nisroch his god Adrammelech and Sharezer struck him with the sword and they slipped way to the land of Ararat and Esarhaddon his son reigned in his place.