\c 11
\p
\v 1 Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a might warrior and he was the son of a strange woman. And Gilead was the father of Jephthah.
\v 2 And the wife of Gilead bore him sons, and the sons of the woman grew up and drove Jephthah out and said to him, “You will not inherit in the house of our father for you are the son of another woman.”
\v 3 And Jephthah fled from his brothers and he lived in the land of Tob and worthless men gathered themselves to Jephthah and they went out with him.
\v 4 And after some days the Ammonites fought with Israel.
\v 5 And as the Ammonites fought with Israel the elders of Gilead came to take Jephthah from the land of Tob.
\v 6 And they said to Jephthah, “Come and be our chief and that we may fight against the Ammonites.”
\v 7 And Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “Did you not hate me and drive me from the house of my father? Why have you come to me now there is trouble for you?”
\v 8 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “For this now we returned to you, that you may go with us and fight against the Ammonites and you wil be the head over us and all the tribe of Gilead.”
\v 9 An Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “If you take me back to fight the Ammonites and the Lord gives them before me, shall I be your head?”
\v 10 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “The Lord will be the hearer between us if we do not do thus according to your word.”
\v 11 And Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead and the people appointed him over them as head and chief and Jephthah spoke all his words before the Lord at Mizpah.
\v 12 And Jephthah send messengers to the king of the Ammonites saying, “What is between you and me that you come to me to fight against my land?”
\v 13 And the king of the Ammonites said to the messengers of Jephthah, “Because Israel took my land when they came up out of Egypt from the Arnon as far as the Jabbok and to the Jordan, and now return them in peace.”
\v 14 And Jephthah again send messengers to the king of the Ammonites.
\v 15 And he said to him, “Thus says Jephthah, ‘Israel did not take the land of Moab and the land of the Ammonites.
\v 16 For when they came up out of Egypt Israel came by the wilderness to the Reed Sea and came to Kadesh.
\v 17 And Israel send messengers to the king of Edom saying, “Let us pass through your land,” but the king of Edom did not listen. And also they sent to the king of Moab and he was not willing and Israel returned by Kadesh.
\v 18 And they came through the wildernesss and around the land of Edom and the land of Moab and they came from the east of the land of Moab and they camped beyond the Arnon and they did not come in the boundary of Moab for the Arnon is the boundary of Moab.
\v 19 And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon and Israel said to him, “Please let us pass through your land to our place.”
\v 20 And Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his territory and Sihon gathered all his people and camped in Jahaz and fought with Israel.
\v 21 And the Lord the God of Israel gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel and they struck them and Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, those dwelling in that land.
\v 22 And they possessed all the territory of the Amorites from the Arnon to the Jabbok and from the wilderness to the Jordan.
\v 23 And now the Lord the God of Israel dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel and you will possess it?
\v 24 Do you not possess what Chemosh your god has caused you to possess? And all that the Lord our God has taken possession of from before us we will possess it.
\v 25 And now are you better than Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he not surely contend with Israel, or did he surely fight with them?
\v 26 While Israel lived in Heshbon and in its villages and in Aroer and in its villages and in all the cities that are on the banks of the Arnon for three hundred years an why did you not take them away in that time?
\v 27 An I have not sinned against you and you are doing me wrong by fighting against me. May the Lord the Judge judge between the Israelites and the Ammonites this day.’”
\v 28 And the king of the Ammonites did not listen to the words of Jephthah which he sent to him.
\v 29 And the spirit of the Lord came upon Jephthah and he went through Gilead and Manasseh. And he passed through Mizpah of Gilead and from Mizpa of Gilead he went through the Ammonites.
\v 30 And Jephthah made a vow to the Lord and he said, “If you will indeed give the Ammonites into my hand
\v 31 then whatever comes out from my the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the Ammonites will be the Lord’s and I will offer it up as a burnt offering.”
\v 32 And Jephthah passed through to the Ammonites to fight against them and the Lord gave them into his hand.
\v 33 And He struck them from Aroer to when you come into Minith, twenty cities, and to Abel-keramim, a very great slaughter. And the Ammonites were humbled from before the Israelites.
\v 34 And Jephthah came to Mizpah and to his house and behold his daugher came out to meet him with tamourines and dancing. And she was his only child, there was no son or daughter besides her.
\v 35 And as he saw her he tore his clothes and said, “Alas my daughter! You have brought me down to bow and you are among those who trouble me and I open my mout to the Lord and I am not able to return it.”
\v 36 And she said to him, “My father, you have opened your mouth to the Lord. Do to me according to wat came out of your mouth since the Lrod has done vengeance for you from your enemies before the Ammonites.”
\v 37 And she said to her father, “Let this thing be one for me, let me alone for two months and I will go and go down to the mountains and I will weep because of my virginity, I and my friends.”
\v 38 And he said, “Go.” And he sent her two months and she went with her friends and wept over her virginity on the mountains.
\v 39 And at the end of two months she returned to her father and he did to her his vow which he vowed and she did not know a man. And it became a custom in Israel
\v 40 year by year the daughers of Israel went to commemorate\f + \ft ?\f* the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year.