\c 7
\p
\v 1 And the Lord said to Noah, “Come, you and all your house, to the ark for I have seen you to be righteous before me in this generation.
\v 2 From every clean animal you shall take for yourself seven, seven male and his female, and from animals which are not clean it will be two, male and his female.
\v 3 Also from the birds of the heavens seven, seven make and female for the seed to live upon the face of the earth.
\v 4 For there are still seven days and I will send rain (Hiph., Part., ms, rfm) on the earth forty days and forty nights and I will wipe out (Qal, Perf., 1cs, hjm) all existence which I made from upon the face of the ground.”
\v 5 And Noah did according to all which the Lord commanded him.
\v 6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood waters were on the earth.
\v 7 And Noah came and his sons and his wife and the wives of his sons with him to the ark from before the waters of the flood.
\v 8 From the clean animals and from the animals which are not clean and from the birds and all which creeps (Qal, Part., ms, vmr) on the ground,
\v 9 two by two they came to Noah to the ark, male and female as God commanded Noah.
\v 10 And it happened after seven days that the waters of the flood were on the earth.
\v 11 In the year six hundred years of the life of Noah in the second month on the seventeenth day of the month, on this day all the springs of the great deep broke open (Niph., Perf., 3cp, uqb) and the windows of the heavens opened (Niph., Perf., 3cp, jtp).
\v 12 And it happened that the rain was on the earth forty days and forty nights.
\v 13 On this same day Noah and Shem and Ham and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and the wife of Noah and the three wives of his sons with them came into the ark.
\v 14 They and all the wild animals according to their kinds and all the animals according to their kinds and all the creeping things that creep on the ground according to their kinds and all the birds according to their kinds, every bird, every wing.
\v 15 And they came to Noah to the ark two by two from all flesh which in it is the breath of life.
\v 16 And the ones that came, male and female came from all flesh as God commanded him and the Lord closed (it) behind him.
\v 17 And it happened that the flood was forty days on the earth and the waters multiplied and they lifted the ark and raised it from upon the earth.
\v 18 And the waters were strong (rbg) and they were exceedingly abundant on the earth and the ark went on the face of the waters.
\v 19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly on the earth and they covered (hsk) all the high mountains which are under all the heavens.
\v 20 Fifteen cubits from the top the waters prevailed and they covered the mountains.
\v 21 And all flesh which creeps on the ground, among the birds, among the cattle, among wild animals, among all swarming things which swarm on the land, and all man died.
\v 22 All which breath of the spirit of life is in its nostrils from all which is on dry ground died.
\v 23 And it wiped out all the existence which was on the face of the ground from man until cattle until creeping things and to birds of the air and they were wiped out from the earth and only Noah and that which was his in the ark remained.
\v 24 And the waters prevailed on the earth a hundred and fifty days.