\c 22
\p
\v 1 And it happened after these things that God tested (Pi., Per., 3ms, hsn) Abraham and he said to him, “Abraham,” and he said, “Here I am.”
\v 2 And he said, “Take now your only son whom you love, Isaac, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him (Hiph., Impv., ms, 3ms suff.) there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains which I will say to you.”
\v 3 And Abraham rose (Hiph., Impf., 3ms, <kv) in the morning and he bound (saddled?) (Qal, Impf., 3ms, vbj) his donkey and he took two of his servants with him and Isaac his son and he cut (Pi., Impf., 3ms, uqb) wood for the burnt offering and he arose and he came to the place which God said to him.
\v 4 On the third day and Abraham lifted his eyes and he saw the place from afar.
\v 5 And Abraham said to his servants, “Remain for yourself here with the donkey and I and the lad will go up thus and we will worship and we will return (Qal, Coh., 1cp, bvy) to you.”
\v 6 And Abraham took the wood for the burnt offering and he placed it on Isaac his son and he took the fire in his hand and the knife and the two of them walked together.
\v 7 And Isaac said to Abraham his father and he said, “My father,” and he said, “Here I am, my son.” And he said, “Behold the fire and the wood but where is the sheep for the burnt offering?”
\v 8 And Abraham said, “God will provide for himself the sheep for the burnt offering, my son.” And the two of them walked together.
\v 9 And they came to the place which God said to him and Abraham built there the altar and he arranged (Qal, Impf., 3ms, Eru) the wood and he bound (Qal, Impf., 3ms, dqu) Isaac his son and he placed him on the altar on top of the wood.
\v 10 And Abraham stretched out his hand and he took the knife to slaughter (Qal, Inf. Con., fjv) his son.
\v 11 And an angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, “Abraham, Abraham,” and he said, “Here I am.”
\v 12 And he said, “Do not cast your hand into the lad and do not do for him anything for now I know that you fear God (participle in construct state) and you have not withheld your only son from me.”
\v 13 and Abraham lifted his eyes and he looked and behold a ram behind, caught (Niph., Per., 3ms, zha) in the thicket by his horns and Abraham went and he took the ram and he offered it for a burnt offering instead of his son.
\v 14 And Abraham called the name of that place, “The Lord will provide,” which is said to this day, “On the mount of the Lord it will be provided.”
\v 15 And the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from Heaven.
\v 16 And he said, “By myself I have sworn, declares the Lord, that because of what you have down in this matter and you did not withold your only son,
\v 17 that I will surely bless you and will surely multiply your seed like the stars in the sky and like the sand which is on the edge of the sea and your seed will take possession (Qal, Impf., 3ms, vry) of the gate of his enemies.
\v 18 And all the nations of the earth will bless themselves in your seed because you obeyed my voice.”
\v 19 And Abraham returned to his servants and they rose and came to Beersheba.
\v 20 And it happened after these things that it was told to Abraham, saying, “Behold Milcah, even she, has born children to Nahor your brother.
\v 21 Uz his firstborn and Buz his brother and Kemuel the father of Aram.
\v 22 And Chesed and Hazo and Pildash and Jidlaph and Bethuel.”
\v 23 And Bethuel fathered Rebekah. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor the brother of Abraham.
\v 24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, also she bore Tebah and Gaham and Tahash and Maacah.